    Title: Age of Information in Multi-Source Updating Systems: An M/G/1 Vacation Queueing Model,
    Abstract: Concurrent with the rise of real-time wireless systems enabled by the Internet of Things, the age of information (AoI) has been widely perceived as a crucial destination-centric performance metric to quantify the timeliness of data delivery. This paper deals with the analysis of information freshness in a multi-source M/G/1 queueing system with utilization of idle server time, referred to as server vacation, in an effective manner.,
    Introduction: Driven by wireless technology advancements, the evolution of Internet of Things (IoT) is progressively reshaping the performance requirements of ubiquitous real-time systems. Unlike traditional network performance metrics such as throughput and latency, status update systems mainly rely on the freshness of data source information received at the destination. Widely referred to as the age of information (AoI), this end-to-end metric fully describes the timeliness of a monitor’s knowledge of a stochastic process generated by a remote source over the wireless medium.,
    Conclusion: This work reports on the average AoI analysis of a multi-source M/G/1 queueing system in which updates from multiple sources arrive as independent Poisson processes and are served by the vacating server. Employing the stochastic decomposition approach, we derived the LST expression for the waiting time of a single source FCFS M/G/1 vacation model in closed form and then formulated the average AoI for the extended multi-source model. Under varying traffic loads and number of sources, the simulation results showed that the vacation model resulted in higher average AoI in contrast to its multi-source counterpart without server vacation.
  
    Title: The Age of Information in Networks: Moments, Distributions, and Sampling,
    Abstract: A source provides status updates to monitors through a network with state defined by a continuous-time finite Markov chain. An age of information (AoI) metric is used to characterize timeliness by the vector of ages tracked by the monitors. Based on a stochastic hybrid systems (SHS) approach, first order linear differential equations are derived for the temporal evolution of both the moments and the moment generating function (MGF) of the age vector components. It is shown that the existence of a non-negative fixed point for the first moment is sufficient to guarantee convergence of all higher order moments as well as a region of convergence for the stationary MGF vector of the age.,
    Introduction: With the emergence of cyberphysical systems, real-time status updates have become an important and ubiquitous form of communication. These updates include traffic reports, game scores, security system reports from computers, homes, and offices, video feedback from remote-controlled systems, and even location updates from loved ones. These examples share a common description: a source generates time-stamped status update messages that are transmitted through a communication system to one or more monitors.,
    Conclusion: This work provides analytic tools for the evaluation of AoI policies and shows how AoI can be optimized in various network types. It highlights the importance of proper update rate management to maintain minimal AoI and discusses potential applications in real-world network systems where timely information is critical.
  
    Title: Age of Information in Scheduled Wireless Relay Networks,
    Abstract: In this paper, we use the concept of Markovian jump linear systems in order to analyze the age of information (AoI) in discrete-time Markovian systems. This approach is, in fact, the discrete-time counterpart of the stochastic hybrid system (SHS) model reported for analyzing AoI in continuous-time Markovian systems and thus, is referred to as the discrete-time SHS (DT-SHS) model. We then apply the DT-SHS model in two wireless relay network settings to analyze and optimize the AoI associated with the static link scheduling policies. The first relay network comprises of one relay and a direct link between source and destination, whereas the second setting has two relays and no direct link. Moreover, a static link scheduling policy schedules the links without any knowledge about the state of the network. Using results obtained through numerical simulations, we validate our analytical approach and show the effect of relays in AoI improvement.,
    Introduction: In emerging communication networks such as real-time Internet of Things and machine-type communications, the end-nodes transmit status updates to a monitoring entity, which is responsible for making proper controlling decisions based on the received information. The timeliness of the received information in such networks is of crucial importance to ensure seamless operation of applications. In this regard, quantifying the freshness of information, termed as age of information (AoI), has attracted a lot of attention in recent years. AoI at a monitor is defined as the time elapsed since the most recent update generated at the monitor. Hence, defining u(t) as the time stamp, i.e. the generation time of the most recent update, AoI at time t can be characterized as x(t) = t− u(t).,
    Conclusion: In this paper, we have proposed the DT-SHS model for analyzing AoI in discrete-time Markovian systems. Then, we have applied the DT-SHS model for analyzing and optimizing the average age associated to static link scheduling policies in two wireless relay network settings. To simplify the derivation of DTMCs in the DT-SHS model, we have assumed that whenever the relay with a lower age transmits successfully, the age of other nodes resets to the age of the destination node. Numerical results have been presented to investigate the effect of relaying on age improvement. We have shown that even relays with very low quality links can be effective in AoI improvement at the destination. Some interesting extensions to this work include investigating the relationship between the amount of AoI improvement and the number of relays, efficiency of dynamic scheduling policies, and impact of user mobility in wireless relay networks.
  
    Title: On the Minimization of Non-Linear Age of Information in the Internet of Things,
    Abstract: In this paper, a novel centralized resource allocation scheme is proposed to enable a wireless base station to adapt to heterogeneous Internet of Things (IoT) environments and manage scarce communication resources to ensure timely delivery of IoT device data. In the considered system, the timeliness of information is determined using non-linear age of information (AoI) metrics that can naturally quantify the freshness of information. To capture the inherent heterogeneity of the IoT system, non-linear aging functions are proposed and designed specifically for IoT devices having different types of messages. To minimize AoI, the proposed centralized scheme allocates the limited communication resources considering AoI and enables the base station to learn the device types. Furthermore, the proposed centralized resource management scheme with different activation probabilities, outage probabilities, and heterogeneity levels is analyzed in terms of the average instantaneous AoI. Simulation results show that the proposed centralized allocation scheme effectively decreases the average instantaneous AoI in a massive IoT with high outage probability and high heterogeneity.,
    Introduction: The Internet of Things (IoT) is potentially the most transformative technology of the coming decade. However, the optimal performance of many IoT applications, such as health monitoring, drones, and virtual reality, requires timely communications. To support such critical IoT applications, the base station (BS) must always maintain the most recent and relevant information collected from IoT devices. In order to evaluate uplink transmission and to support time-sensitive IoT applications, the age of information (AoI), which is a metric that can quantify the freshness of the information, is used. The problem of AoI minimization in an IoT must consider the prominent properties of an IoT, including massive scale, limited communication resources, and system heterogeneity (in terms of device types, messages, and communication needs).,
    Conclusion: In this paper, we have proposed a centralized approach for allocating the limited communication resources based on the AoI of IoT devices. We have introduced a framework for non-linear AoI to capture the inherent heterogeneity in an IoT, and we have proposed the non-linear aging functions tailored for an IoT. In the presence of both linear and exponential aging functions, we have shown that comparing the future AoI achieves a lower average instantaneous AoI at the BS than comparing the current AoI. For the centralized resource allocation, we have introduced a priority scheduling scheme with learning, which enables the BS to learn the device types and allocate the limited RBs to the heterogeneous devices based on their future AoI. Simulation results have validated our results in diverse IoT scenarios.
  
    Title: Average Age of Information in Two-Way Relay Networks with Service Preemptions,
    Abstract: In this paper, we aim to derive the average age of information (AAoI) associated with the static link scheduling policies in a buffer-aided two-way relay network, where two sources exchange their updates through an intermediate relay equipped with data buffers. With regard to buffer-aided relaying, we consider the two-mode relaying scheme, where each time slot is dedicated to either broadcast or multiple access mode. Moreover, the link scheduling policy is considered to be static, which randomizes between broadcast and multiple access modes when the relay is backlogged and chooses the multiple access mode, otherwise. We establish AAoI corresponding to the sources in terms of steady-state probabilities of buffers at the relay for different instants of the network. Through numerical results, we show that the joint status of the queues at the relay has a significant effect on determining the optimal static link scheduling policy and further validate our analytical approach via simulations.,
    Introduction: Ubiquitous connectivity in the Internet of things (IoT) has brought about the possibility to access real-time information generated by the sensors used in various monitoring applications such as intelligent transportation, healthcare, and smart grid energy management. Such abundant use of sensors in system status updates has attracted a lot of attention towards the notion of information freshness in recent years. Specifically, the widely used destination-centric metric for quantifying the freshness of information is the age of information (AoI) and is defined as the time elapsed since the generation of the most recent update received at the monitor. This metric, along with other related metrics such as peak AoI (PAoI) and the age of incorrect information, have been studied under different settings, ranging from simple queues to multi-hop networks.,
    Conclusion: In this paper, we have proposed an analytical approach for deriving AAoI in a buffer-aided two-way relay network. The relaying protocol is based on a two-mode scheme namely, broadcast and multiple access modes. According to the applied static link scheduling scheme, the relay selects broadcast mode with a specific probability which implicitly models the level of preemption allowed by the sources. We have established the AAoI of the sources in terms of steady-state probabilities of the relay buffers at different instants of the network. Numerically, we have obtained the optimal static link scheduling policy in order to optimize the AAoI of individual sources or the weighted sum of AAoIs of the sources. Our theoretical analysis have been validated via simulation results.
  
    Title: Non-Linear Age of Information: An Energy Efficient Receiver-Centric Approach,
    Abstract: The age of information (AoI) performance metric for point-to-point wireless communication systems is analytically studied under Rician-faded channels and when the receiver is equipped with multiple antennas. The general scenario of a non-linear AoI function is considered, which includes the conventional linear AoI as a special case. The stop-and-wait transmission policy is adopted, where the source node samples and then transmits new data only upon the successful reception of previous data. This approach can serve as a performance benchmark for any queuing system used in practice. New analytical and closed-form expressions are derived with respect to the average AoI and average peak AoI for the considered system configuration. We particularly focus on the energy efficiency of the said mode of operation, whereas some useful engineering insights are provided.,
    Introduction: AGE OF information (AoI) denotes a rather new performance metric for wireless communication systems, which indicates the freshness of the latest received data. Doing so, it has numerous applications in a set of various recent and upcoming networking paradigms, e.g., Internet-of-Things (IoT), vehicular and machine-type communications as well as low-latency and delay-critical services. On another front, source nodes in these applications are usually simple sensor devices which are battery-powered and thus become energy-constrained. Hence, keeping the status updates fresh (i.e., minimizing AoI) and providing energy efficiency at the same time represents quite a challenging and non-trivial task.,
    Conclusion: The non-linear AoI and PAoI performance metrics were analytically studied under Rician-faded channels, when a single-antenna transmitter communicates directly with a multiple-antenna receiver. The conventional linear (in time) AoI and PAoI arise as special cases of the considered metrics. Both the short- and long-packet regimes were considered, when uncoded transmission is performed. The rather simple yet practically feasible stop-and-wait transmission approach was adopted, which may serve as a performance benchmark for arbitrary queuing models. From the energy efficiency standpoint, it was explicitly demonstrated that the presence of user mobility dramatically affects the system performance. The beneficial role of a multiple-antenna array at the receiver was also revealed. Finally, neither a low nor a relatively high target data rate and/or transmit SNR are preferable; whereas there is an intermediate optimal point that enhances the system performance in terms of both AoI/PAoI and EE.
  
    Title: Real-time Status: How Often Should One Update?,
    Abstract: Increasingly ubiquitous communication networks and connectivity via portable devices have engendered a host of applications in which sources, for example people and environmental sensors, send updates of their status to interested recipients. These applications desire status updates at the recipients to be as timely as possible; however, this is typically constrained by limited network resources. In this paper, we employ a time-average age metric for the performance evaluation of status update systems. We derive general methods for calculating the age metric that can be applied to a broad class of service systems. We apply these methods to queue-theoretic system abstractions consisting of a source, a service facility and monitors, with the model of the service facility (physical constraints) a given. The queue discipline of first-come-first-served (FCFS) is explored. We show the existence of an optimal rate at which a source must generate its information to keep its status as timely as possible at all its monitors. This rate differs from those that maximize utilization (throughput) or minimize status packet delivery delay. While our abstractions are simpler than their real-world counterparts, the insights obtained, we believe, are a useful starting point in understanding and designing systems that support real time status updates.,
    Introduction: The information age has witnessed huge improvements in computing, access and storage of information. More recently, fueled by ubiquitous connectivity and advancements in portable devices, real-time status updates have become increasingly popular. These range from news and weather reports and updates by individuals on Twitter about what is keeping them busy, to updates by environmental sensors. Real-time status updates can enable a variety of applications. Temperature and humidity updates from a forest can help better predict and control forest fires, energy utilization information can help make a smart-home energy efficient, knowledge of the velocity, acceleration of a car, can assist drivers in an intelligent transportation system to make safe maneuvers.,
    Conclusion: We have looked at the problem of keeping the status updates generated by a source as new as possible at interested recipients, given a set of physical constraints. We devised a method that helped us analyze such systems abstracted in queue-theoretic terms, where the source was modeled as an arrival process and the physical constraints as a given service facility. We looked at single source and server (and one or more monitors) systems under different assumptions of arrival and service processes and the queue discipline of first-come-first-served (FCFS). The arrival rate that minimizes the status update age for the considered FCFS systems is derived. It sets the utilization of the server to ensure that neither the packets wait too long for service nor the server is idle too often. Finally, we showed that the smallest age under FCFS can be achieved if a new packet is available exactly when the packet in service finishes service.
  
    Title: Age of Information: An Introduction and Survey,
    Abstract: We summarize recent contributions in the broad area of age of information (AoI). In particular, we describe the current state of the art in the design and optimization of low-latency cyberphysical systems and applications in which sources send time-stamped status updates to interested recipients. These applications desire status updates at the recipients to be as timely as possible; however, this is typically constrained by limited system resources. We describe AoI timeliness metrics and present general methods of AoI evaluation analysis that are applicable to a wide variety of sources and systems. Starting from elementary single-server queues, we apply these AoI methods to a range of increasingly complex systems, including energy harvesting sensors transmitting over noisy channels, parallel server systems, queueing networks, and various single-hop and multi-hop wireless networks. We also explore how update age is related to MMSE methods of sampling, estimation and control of stochastic processes. The paper concludes with a review of efforts to employ age optimization in cyberphysical applications.,
    Introduction: LOW-LATENCY cyberphysical system applications continue to grow in importance. Camera images from vehicles are used to generate point clouds that describe the surroundings. Research efforts directed toward low-latency networks are underway. Machine-to-machine communication and the tactile internet, each requiring link delays of just a few milliseconds, were key drivers for the 5G cellular standard. Edge cloud computing that will eliminate transcontinental round-trip propagation delays on the order of 40 ms is another essential ingredient. However, while new systems supporting low-latency communication are necessary, they are also not sufficient for timely operation. Packet congestion in networks and backlogged jobs in edge-cloud processing centers may preclude the timely delivery of updates.,
    Conclusion: This survey focuses on recent contributions to AoI analysis. We introduced the age process and associated age metrics, and basic methods for the analysis of AoI. We summarized AoI results in single-server queues, in order to demonstrate how AoI is influenced by the update arrival rate, the queue discipline, and packet management schemes designed explicitly to optimize freshness. This leads to a review of queueing networks, with a focus on scheduling updates of multiple sources at multiple servers. Finally, the conclusion discusses potential application areas of AoI.
  
    Title: Age of Information of Multiple Sources with Queue Management,
    Abstract: We consider a system of multiple sources generating status update packets, which need to be sent by a single transmitter to a destination over a network. In the model we study, the packet generation time may vary at each source, and the packets go through the network with a random delay. Each update carries a time stamp of its generation, allowing the destination to calculate for each source the so-called Age of Information, which measures the timeliness of each status update arriving. Considering that queuing delay can unnecessarily increase the age of a critical status update, we propose here a queue management technique, in which we maintain a queue with only the latest status packet of each source, overwriting any previously queued update from that source. This simple technique drastically limits the need for buffering and can be applied in systems where the history of source status is not relevant. We show that this scheme results in significantly less transmissions compared to the standard M/M/1 queue model. Furthermore, the proposed technique reduces the per source age of information, especially in settings not using queue management with high status update generation rates.,
    Introduction: In many applications, the timeliness with which a system presents its current status to a receiver is of critical importance. Take for instance news and weather reports, updates on social networks and vehicular status in intelligent transportation systems. To quantify this, the concept of Age of Information has been introduced, capturing the elapsed time from the most recently generated status update received. Assuming the most recently update received at time t carries the timestamp of its generation u(t), the source’s status age, which we will referred to as “age”, is the random process ∆(t) = t − u(t). Therefore, keeping a low average ∆(t) can be a system requirement towards updating the receiver in a timely fashion.,
    Conclusion: In this work, we took a first step in analyzing the age of information on a multi-source system using a simple queue management technique. We provided simulation results on the effect of the proposed technique on the age of information and the performance was compared against a standard M/M/1 queue system. The main takeaway of this paper is that the proposed queue management technique reduces significantly the average age of information as compared to M/M/1 systems, when the queue utilization is relatively high. On the other hand, when the utilization of the queue is low, packet replacements prior to their transmission are rare and our scheme performs similarly to the classical M/M/1 queue.
  
    Title: Status Updates in a Multi-Stream M/G/1/1 Preemptive Queue,
    Abstract: We consider a source that collects a multiplicity of streams of updates and sends them through a network to a monitor. However, only a single update can be in the system at a time. Therefore, the transmitter always preempts the packet being served when a new update is generated. We consider Poisson arrivals for each stream and a common general service time, and refer to this system as the multi-stream M/G/1/1 queue with preemption. Using the detour flow graph method, we compute a closed form expression for the average age and the average peak age of each stream. Moreover, we deduce that although all streams are treated equally from a transmission point of view (they all preempt each other), one can still prioritize a stream from an age point of view by simply increasing its generation rate. However, this will increase the sum of the ages which is minimized when all streams have the same update rate.,
    Introduction: Previous work on status update, e.g. [1]–[6], used an Age of Information (AoI) metric in order to assess the freshness of randomly generated updates sent by one or multiple sources to a monitor through the network. In these papers, updates are assumed to be generated according to a Poisson process and the main metric used to quantify the age is the time average age (which we will call average age) given by ∆ = lim τ→∞ (1/τ) ∫ τ 0 ∆(t)dt, where ∆(t) is the instantaneous age at the receiver of the information about the source status. If the last successfully received update was generated at time u(t) then the age of the source status at time t is ∆(t) = t−u(t). When the system is idle or an update is being transmitted then the instantaneous age increases linearly with time. Once an update generated at time ti is received by the monitor at t′i, ∆(t) drops to the value t′i− ti. This results in the sawtooth sample path seen in Fig. 1.,
    Conclusion: In this paper we studied the M/G/1/1 preemptive system with a multi-stream updates source. We derived closed form expressions for the average age and average peak age using the detour flow graph method. Moreover, using these results we showed that, for a fixed total generation rate, one can’t prioritize one of the streams and at the same time minimize the total age. In fact, we prove that in order to optimize the total age, the source needs to generate all streams at the same rate. This means that no single stream can be given a higher rate, a necessary condition to reduce its age with respect to the other streams.
  
    Title: The Age of Information: Real-Time Status Updating by Multiple Sources,
    Abstract: We examine multiple independent sources providing status updates to a monitor through simple queues. We formulate an age of information (AoI) timeliness metric and derive a general result for the AoI that is applicable to a wide variety of multiple source service systems. For first-come first-served and two types of last-come first-served systems with Poisson arrivals and exponential service times, we find the region of feasible average status ages for multiple updating sources. We then use these results to characterize how a service facility can be shared among multiple updating sources. A new simplified technique for evaluating the AoI in finite-state continuous-time queuing systems is also derived. Based on stochastic hybrid systems, this method makes AoI evaluation to be comparable in complexity to finding the stationary distribution of a finite-state Markov chain.,
    Introduction: Increasingly ubiquitous connectivity to communication networks and availability of portable devices have engendered a host of applications in which sources – people and environmental sensors – send updates of their status to interested recipients. These include news and weather reports and updates by individuals on Twitter about what is keeping them busy, updates by environmental sensors, and vehicular status (position, velocity, acceleration) updates that can assist drivers of nearby vehicles in an intelligent transportation system. These applications need status updates at one or more monitors to be as timely as possible; however, this is typically constrained by limited network resources.,
    Conclusion: We have provided a comprehensive analysis of AoI in systems with multiple updating sources under different queuing disciplines. We have shown that while traditional queue management techniques such as first-come first-served and last-come first-served can be employed to control AoI, new approaches based on stochastic hybrid systems offer a promising alternative. These systems allow for a more fine-grained analysis of AoI dynamics and can be customized to meet the specific needs of various application scenarios. Additionally, our findings suggest that the management of service facilities to optimize AoI requires careful consideration of both the operational characteristics of the source updates and the desired timeliness requirements at the monitors.
  
    Title: On the Age of Information in Multi-Source Queueing Models,
    Abstract: Freshness of status update packets is essential for enabling services where a destination needs the most recent measurements of various sensors. In this paper, we study the information freshness of single-server multi-source queueing models under a first-come first-served (FCFS) serving policy. In the considered model, each source independently generates status update packets according to a Poisson process. The information freshness of the status updates of each source is evaluated by the average age of information (AoI). We derive an exact expression for the average AoI for the case with exponentially distributed service time, i.e., for a multi-source M/M/1 queueing model. Moreover, we derive three approximate expressions for the average AoI for a multi-source M/G/1 queueing model having a general service time distribution. Simulation results are provided to validate the derived exact average AoI expression, to assess the tightness of the proposed approximations, and to demonstrate the AoI behavior for different system parameters.,
    Introduction: Various services in wireless sensor networks (WSNs) such as Internet of Things and cyber-physical control applications have attracted both academic and industrial attention. In these networks, low power sensors may be assigned to send status updates about a random process to intended destinations. Such a status update system can monitor, e.g., temperature of a specific environment (room, greenhouse, etc.), and vehicular status (position, acceleration, etc.). One key enabler for these services is high freshness of the sensors’ information at a destination. Real-time control and decision making in the system requires that the destination has very recent measurements of the various sensors.,
    Conclusion: This work has provided a comprehensive analysis of the average AoI in multi-source queueing models, showing that even with a simple FCFS policy, the behavior of AoI can be effectively managed and optimized. Our analysis has highlighted the complex interplay between packet generation rates and service dynamics, offering insights into how system parameters affect the information freshness. Further, the derived expressions for the average AoI under different system conditions will help in designing more efficient queuing systems for managing information freshness in real-time applications.
  
    Title: Discrete-time Queueing Model of Age of Information with Multiple Information Sources,
    Abstract: Information freshness in IoT-based status update systems has recently been studied through the Age of Information (AoI) and Peak AoI (PAoI) performance metrics. In this paper, we study a discrete-time server arising in multi-source IoT systems which accepts incoming information packets from multiple information sources so as to be forwarded to a remote monitor for status update purposes. Under the assumption of Bernoulli information packet arrivals and a common geometric service time distribution across all the sources, we numerically obtain the exact per-source distributions of AoI and PAoI in matrix-geometric form for three different queueing disciplines: i) Non-Preemptive Bufferless (NPB) ii) Preemptive Bufferless (PB) iii) Non-Preemptive Single Buffer with Replacement (NPSBR). The proposed numerical algorithm employs the theory of Discrete-Time Markov Chains (DTMC) of Quasi-Birth-Death (QBD) type and is matrix analytical, i.e, the algorithm is based on numerically stable and efficient vector-matrix operations. Numerical examples are provided to validate the accuracy and effectiveness of the proposed queueing model.,
    Introduction: In a networked control and monitoring IoT-based system, it is of utmost importance to deliver timely status updates and thus keep the information fresh, for stable operation. Performance metrics using the Age of Information (AoI) and Peak AoI (PAoI) processes have first been proposed in continuous-time, for quantitative assessment of information freshness in status update systems. Since then, there has been a surge of interest in AoI research in terms of development of queueing models or AoI optimization in the discrete-time setting, for each information source, there is an underlying stochastic process which is randomly sampled, and the sampled values are transmitted in the form of information packets towards a remote monitor via a packet-based communications network. Subsequently, for each information source, there is an individual stochastic process, called the AoI process (or sequence), which is maintained at the monitor that keeps track of the time elapsed since the generation of the last successfully received update packet.,
    Conclusion: This work has provided a comprehensive analysis of the average AoI in multi-source queueing models, showing that even with a simple FCFS policy, the behavior of AoI can be effectively managed and optimized. Our analysis has highlighted the complex interplay between packet generation rates and service dynamics, offering insights into how system parameters affect the information freshness. Further, the derived expressions for the average AoI under different system conditions will help in designing more efficient queuing systems for managing information freshness in real-time applications.
  
    Title: Delay-Constrained Energy-Optimal Base Station Sleeping Control,
    Abstract: Base station (BS) sleeping is an effective way to improve the energy-efficiency of cellular networks. However, it may bring extra user-perceived delay. We conduct a theoretical study into the impact of BS sleeping on both energy-efficiency and user-perceived delay. We consider hysteresis sleep and three typical wake-up schemes, namely single sleep, multiple sleep, and N-limited schemes. We model the system as an M/G/1 vacation queue, which captures the setup time, the mode-changing cost, as well as the counting or detection cost during the sleep mode. Closed-form expressions for the average power and the Laplace–Stieltjes transform of delay distribution are obtained. The impacts of system parameters on these expressions are analyzed. We then formulate an optimization problem to design delay-constrained energy-optimal BS sleeping policies. We show that the optimal solutions possess a special structure, thereby allowing us to obtain them explicitly or numerically by simple bisection search. In addition, the relationship between the optimal power consumption and the mean delay constraint is analyzed, so as to answer the fundamental question: how much energy can be saved by trading off a certain amount of delay? It is shown that this optimal relationship is linear only when the delay constraint is lower than a threshold. Numerical studies are also conducted, where the impact of detection or counting cost during the sleep mode is explored, and the delay distribution under the optimal policy is obtained.,
    Introduction: The ever increasing demand for ubiquitous information access and broadband multimedia service in wireless networks has triggered vast expansion of network infrastructures, resulting in dramatically increased energy consumption. The electricity consumption of the global radio access network is reported to be 77 TWh in 2012, and is estimated to be 109 TWh in 2020. This rising energy has both ecological and economic impacts, thus triggering the emerging research area called 'green cellular networks'. About 60-80% of the energy consumption in cellular networks is consumed by base stations (BSs). With a large proportion of energy spent on main supply, cooling, idle-mode signaling and processing, a BS with little or no traffic load may nevertheless consume more than 90 percent of its peak energy. Under these circumstances, BS sleeping is drawing increasing attentions recently.,
    Conclusion: In this paper, we have conducted a comprehensive study of delay-constrained energy-optimal BS sleeping control. Our analysis has provided critical insights into the impact of various system parameters on the energy and delay performance of cellular networks under BS sleeping regimes. Our findings demonstrate that optimal BS sleeping policies can significantly enhance energy efficiency while controlling delay within acceptable limits. The relationships derived between energy consumption and delay performance not only aid in theoretical understanding but also offer practical guidance for designing energy-efficient and delay-optimized wireless communication systems.
  
    Title: To Relay or Not to Relay: Open Distance and Optimal Deployment for Linear Underwater Acoustic Networks,
    Abstract: This paper investigates the deployment of relays in underwater acoustic networks, focusing on the determination of when and where a relay should be deployed based on energy and delay performance. We derive a critical transmission distance, termed open distance, beyond which a relay should be deployed to optimize network performance. We prove that the optimal relay placement is at the midpoint of the link if necessary. The study applies to linear two-hop relay networks and the results can be extended to multi-hop networks. Simulation results support the theoretical findings, showing that appropriate relay deployment can significantly reduce network energy consumption while maintaining end-to-end delay.,
    Introduction: Underwater acoustic communications are essential for long-range data delivery in hostile undersea environments. Acoustic channels are bandwidth-limited and energy-expensive, especially for long-range transmissions. The introduction of relays can potentially expand effective bandwidth and reduce transmit power, thus improving energy efficiency. However, relay deployment may also degrade network performance by increasing end-to-end delay due to additional packet forwarding time.,
    Conclusion: We have quantitatively addressed the problems of when and where to deploy relays in linear underwater acoustic networks. By defining a critical transmission distance called open distance, we provide a simple method to determine the necessity of relay deployment. We also confirm that placing a relay at the midpoint of a transmission link is optimal when deployment is necessary. Our approach helps in constructing energy-efficient and delay-optimized linear and potentially multi-hop networks.
  
    Title: A Queueing Network Model for Analysis of Patient Transitions Within Hospitals,
    Abstract: Safe and efficient patient transitions are of critical importance to ensure patient safety and care quality. To study patient transitions, this paper presents a queueing network model-based iteration method to model and analyze transitions between emergency department, intensive care unit, and general ward within a hospital. Routings with feedback flows are considered under general arrival and service processes, and the effects of blocking on performance measures are presented for both the mean and variability. It is shown that the iteration procedure is convergent and leads to acceptable accuracy of estimation, for both small- and large-sized hospitals. In addition, the impacts of bed capacity, admission rate, as well as arrival and service time variabilities are discussed. Such a method provides an efficient way to study patient transitions within hospitals.,
    Introduction: ENSURING safe and smooth transitions is of critical importance in healthcare delivery systems. Patient transitions occur in all aspects of a patient’s journey across time, life cycle, space, and organizations. From diagnosis, test, and medication decision to treatment and procedures (across time), from pediatric to adult, and to senior care (across life cycle), from primary care clinic to specialist care, hospitals, and to nursing homes (across organizations), and from phone triage or patient portal to office encounters (across space), many complex and critical issues can occur during these transitions.,
    Conclusion: In this paper, we have conducted a comprehensive study of delay-constrained energy-optimal BS sleeping control. Our analysis has provided critical insights into the impact of various system parameters on the energy and delay performance of cellular networks under BS sleeping regimes. Our findings demonstrate that optimal BS sleeping policies can significantly enhance energy efficiency while controlling delay within acceptable limits. The relationships derived between energy consumption and delay performance not only aid in theoretical understanding but also offer practical guidance for designing energy-efficient and delay-optimized wireless communication systems.
  
    Title: The Age of Updates in a Simple Relay Network,
    Abstract: In this paper, we examine a system where status updates are generated by a source and are forwarded in a First-Come-First-Served (FCFS) manner to the monitor. We consider the case where the server has other tasks to fulfill referred to as vacations, a simple example being relaying the packets of another non age-sensitive stream. Due to the server’s necessity to go on vacations, the age process of the stream of interest becomes complicated to evaluate. By leveraging specific queuing theory tools, we provide a closed form of the average age of the stream which enables us to optimize its packet generation rate and achieve the minimum possible average age. Numerical results are provided to corroborate the theoretical findings and highlight the interaction between the stream and the vacations in question.,
    Introduction: The Age of Information (AoI) is a new concept that has been introduced in communication systems. It is particularly relevant due to ubiquitous connectivity and cheap hardware costs, creating new applications where sensors send status updates to a receiver. The updates should be as timely as possible, ensuring the freshest information is available to the monitor. This paper explores the complexities involved in managing these updates, especially when the transmitting server must intermittently fulfill other non-communication-related duties, known as vacations.,
    Conclusion: This study advances the understanding of how service interruptions, or vacations, affect the age of information in communication systems. By developing a theoretical framework and providing numerical validations, we have demonstrated how optimal packet generation rates can minimize the age of information, even when the server is periodically unavailable for regular transmissions. This insight is crucial for designing more efficient communication protocols in systems where servers are tasked with multiple concurrent responsibilities.
  
    Title: Peak Age of Information in Priority Queuing Systems,
    Abstract: We consider a priority queueing system where a single processor serves k classes of packets that are generated randomly following Poisson processes. Our objective is to compute the expected Peak Age of Information (PAoI) under various scenarios. In particular, we consider two situations where the buffer size at each queue is one and infinite, and in the infinite buffer size case we consider First Come First Serve (FCFS) and Last Come First Serve (LCFS) as service disciplines. For the system with buffer size one at each queue, we derive PAoI exactly for the case of exponential service time and bounds (which are excellent approximations) for the case of general service time, with small k. For the system with infinite buffer size, we provide closed-form expressions of PAoI for both FCFS and LCFS where service time is general and k could be large. Using those results we investigated the effect of ordering of priorities and service disciplines for the various scenarios. We perform extensive numerical studies to validate our results and develop insights.,
    Introduction: In recent years, the notion of Age of Information (AoI) has garnered attention from many researchers. The main applications that have been cited include sensor networks, wireless networks, and autonomous vehicle systems, as it is important to know the freshness of information in all those cases. Our research has been motivated by an application in smart manufacturing where edge devices, sensors in particular, with limited processing capabilities, would monitor the health of various tools, condition of components, and quality of work pieces in machines. This sensed information would be used for timely decisions such as tool changes, re-calibration and rework, thereby improving overall quality of the manufactured products. In such a scenario, decisions may be made based on delayed information due to the discontinuous sampling and long information processing time. Hence it is crucial to consider the freshness of information in decision making, for some type of which AoI is an ideal choice.,
    Conclusion: Our analysis provides critical insights into the impact of various system parameters on the energy and delay performance of cellular networks under BS sleeping regimes. Our findings demonstrate that optimal BS sleeping policies can significantly enhance energy efficiency while controlling delay within acceptable limits. The relationships derived between energy consumption and delay performance not only aid in theoretical understanding but also offer practical guidance for designing energy-efficient and delay-optimized wireless communication systems.
  
    Title: On the Age of Status Updates in Unreliable Multi-Source M/G/1 Queueing Systems,
    Abstract: The timeliness of status message delivery in communications networks is subjective to time-varying wireless channel transmissions. In this paper, we investigate the age of information (AoI) of each source in a multi-source M/G/1 queueing update system with active server failures. In particular, we adopt the method of supplementary variables to derive a closed-form expression for the average AoI in terms of system parameters, where the server repair time follows a general distribution and the service time of packets generated by independent sources is a general random variable. Numerical results are provided to validate the effectiveness of the proposed packet serving policy under different parametric settings.,
    Introduction: Age of Information (AoI) has emerged as an instrumental performance metric to quantify information freshness at the receiver in status update systems facilitated by advances in 6G wireless networks. Unlike network delay, the measured value of a monitored communication process is included in a status update packet, together with a timestamp indicating the moment the data was generated at the source. In upcoming cyber-physical control systems, AoI is essentially used to fully characterize latency and is related to the time elapsed since the latest received update was generated at any given time.,
    Conclusion: In this paper, we analyzed the average AoI of each source in a multi-source M/G/1 queueing model with active server breakdowns and general repair time. Using the supplementary variable technique, we first derived the pgf of AoI and the stationary distribution in a single-source unreliable M/G/1 queue. Then, the average AoI expression for the unreliable multi-source M/G/1 queue was derived in closed form. The analytical findings were validated for varying packet arrival and server failure rates under general service time distribution via simulation results. A possible avenue of future work is AoI analysis of correlated Poisson arrivals from multiple sources in unreliable queueing models.
  
    Title: Stochastic Decompositions in the M/G/1 Queue with Generalized Vacations,
    Abstract: This study explores stochastic decompositions in the M/G/1 queue where the server may take vacations according to a generalized policy. We focus on deriving exact distributional properties of the system state at various points, such as at departure and at arbitrary times. Our results extend classic decompositions by incorporating more complex vacation schemes that involve strategies such as server setup times and multiple vacation types. These extended decompositions provide a deeper understanding of queue dynamics and can help optimize queue performance in practical settings.,
    Introduction: Queueing systems with server vacations are used to model operations where servers may intermittently stop processing jobs to perform maintenance, rest, or other tasks. Traditional M/G/1 queue models assume no server vacations, which limits their applicability to real-world scenarios. This paper generalizes the vacation model by considering various types of vacations that can occur according to different stochastic processes, thus providing a more realistic representation of systems where server availability varies.,
    Conclusion: Our analysis offers a comprehensive mathematical framework for understanding and predicting the behavior of M/G/1 queueing systems under generalized vacation policies. By incorporating a variety of vacation types and analyzing their impact on system performance, we provide valuable insights that can be used to design more effective and efficient queueing systems. Our results highlight the importance of considering detailed aspects of server behavior in queueing models to better match the complexities found in practical applications.
  
    title: Blockchain-Based Cloud Storage System with Enhanced Optimization and Integrity Preservation,
    abstract: Cloud storage system provides on-demand and pay-per-use storage models with low computing costs. However, this storage system suffers from various security risks. Blockchain technology is an advanced technique that stores data in a distributed manner, and once the data are stored, it cannot be altered. Therefore, a blockchain-based distributed architecture has been proposed in this paper for the cloud storage system. The proposed scheme utilizes the functionality of the smart contract to provide security features to the stored cloud data. The proposed scheme encodes the data before uploading it to the cloud server to achieve confidentiality. Furthermore, the proposed system includes an enhanced optimization technique and a challenge-response-based integrity checking mechanism, which provides a more secure cloud environment. The proposed technique also minimizes the system bandwidth cost using an enhanced fruit fly optimization algorithm that optimizes the node failure repair process. The experimental results and performance evaluation show that the proposed scheme is secured and reliable for the cloud computing environment.,
    introduction: Nowadays, data are presented in a variety of forms, whenever it is needed. A massive amount of data on storage devices create maintenance issues. Therefore, many users prefer to outsource their data to the cloud to alleviate the heavy burden of storage and maintenance in local storage. Cloud computing is a paradigm that provides users or customers with a lot of benefits and functionality like storage space, software applications, networks, and computation services. However, there are many data security issues in the cloud environment. Data may leak while users store their data in the cloud; it is critical to protect privacy and provide data protection. Also, users lose control over the data after outsourcing it to the cloud, and the cloud data may not be safe and vulnerable to various attacks. Cloud storage protection has a broad impact, and there is growing public concern about user privacy. However, current cloud storage architectures have flaws, such as centralized data storage, which compromises server security, and the need for trusted third parties, which are nightmares for user privacy protection. The data contained in many data centers are not completely distributed in today's distributed cloud computing. As a result, data security, integrity, and availability are adversely affected. Blockchain is a decentralized database defined as a linked chain of blocks and is difficult to tamper with, forge, or trace. The blockchain stores all transaction information, and almost no one can alter the data once it has been entered. This immutable feature is obtained from the blockchain system and process itself, not from a specific operation. As a result, blockchain technology is simpler to use and more stable compared to other security technologies.,
    conclusion: In this paper, a novel scheme has been proposed to improve the security of the cloud environment by using blockchain technology. Here, blockchain technology is utilized to store the cloud data as a block of chain, and it supports preserving integrity by using a third-party auditor. In the proposed scheme, a novel algorithm is presented to regenerate code based on failure repair. The performance of the proposed scheme is compared in terms of the average time and total cost. It requires less execution time, and the optimization method, i.e., the enhanced fruit fly optimization technique, is also cost-efficient. Thus, the proposed methodology is far better than the existing techniques.
  
    title: Cloud Computing Security Issues and Challenges: A Survey,
    abstract: Cloud Computing has become another buzzword after Web 2.0. The phrase cloud computing originated from the diagrams used to symbolize the internet. Cloud computing is not a completely new concept; it has intricate connection to the grid Computing paradigm, and other relevant technologies such as utility computing, cluster computing, and distributed systems in general. With the development of cloud computing, a set of security problems appears. Security issues present a strong barrier for users to adapt into Cloud Computing systems. Several surveys of potential cloud adopters indicate that security is the primary concern hindering its adoption. This paper introduces the background and service model of cloud computing. Along with this, few of security issues and challenges are also highlighted.,
    introduction: The cloud computing is a new computing model that provides the uniform access to wide area distributed resources on demand. The emergence of cloud computing has made a tremendous impact on the Information Technology (IT) industry over the past few years, where large companies such as Google, Amazon and Microsoft strive to provide more powerful, reliable and cost-efficient cloud platforms, and business enterprises seek to reshape their business models to gain benefit from this new paradigm. However, there still exist many problems in cloud computing today. A recent survey by Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) shows that security has become the primary concern for people to shift to cloud computing.,
    conclusion: In this paper key security considerations and challenges which are currently faced in the Cloud computing are highlighted. Many enhancements in existing solutions as well as more mature and newer solutions are urgently needed to ensure that cloud computing benefits are fully realized as its adoption accelerates. Cloud computing is still in its infancy, and how the security and privacy landscape changes will impact its successful, widespread adoption.
  
    title: Query optimization mechanisms in the cloud environments: A systematic study,
    abstract: The goal of a query optimizer is to provide an optimal Query Execution Plan (QEP) by comparing alternative query plans. In a distributed database system over cloud environment, the relations required by a query plan may be stored at multiple sites. This leads to an exponential increase in the number of possible equivalent plan alternatives to find an optimal QEP. Although it is not computationally reasonable to explore exhaustively all possible plans in such large search space. Although query optimization mechanisms are important in the cloud environments, to the best of our knowledge, there exists no complete and systematic review on investigating these issues. Therefore, in this paper, four categories to study these mechanisms are considered which are search‐based, machine learning‐based, schema‐based, and security‐based mechanisms. Also, this paper represents the advantages and disadvantages of the selected query optimization techniques and investigates the metrics of their techniques. Finally, the important challenges of these techniques are reviewed to develop more efficient query optimization techniques in the future.,
    introduction: Cloud computing as one of the most important computing models in the recent years decreases investments in Information Technology (IT) and also enhances computational efficiency. Technologies such as cloud computing have aimed at giving shared access to large pool of resources, including data storage, memory, processing, and virtual machines in a pay‐as‐you‐go model to consumers. The main aim of this paradigm is offering computing capabilities with measured services. Therefore, cloud service providers offer scalable various resources as a service such as Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), and Expert as a Service (EaaS) dynamically. A cloud client, such as a web browser and mobile app, can be helpful in accessing these services. Also, Database as a Service (DBaaS) as one of the main services is provided by cloud computing which enables the subscribers to access the data by a query from any area of cloud. Henceforth, the reliability and availability are essential for efficient query processing in the cloud environment. One of the biggest challenges that DBaaS providers have to cope with is to provide an illusion of infinite resources with increasing database workloads where the query plans need to be scheduled optimally in order to answer the required services. Distributed query processing involves several steps. First, the query is translated into an expression of the relational algebra in query decomposition layer. Second, choosing fragments in the query is the duty of data localization layer. The conversion of distributed query into a query on fragments is done in the second step. Third, the global optimization layer creates an optimal Query Execution Plan (QEP) for the query plan. Also, local processing and communication cost should be considered in the third layer. Henceforth, query optimization is the main part of the query processing. Fourth, performing the distributed query and returning the answer to the query are done in the last layer. Distributed query processing methodology is shown in Figure 1. The query optimization approaches can be classified as static and dynamic. The values of the parameters to generate the optimal query plan are valid during the query execution in the static mechanisms. The produced query plans by a static query optimizer may not be optimal while the cloud systems are changed dynamically. On the other hand, the dynamic optimization strategy enhances the efficiency of execution plans when the execution of the applications starts.,
    conclusion: In this paper, a novel scheme has been proposed to improve the security of the cloud environment by using blockchain technology. Here, blockchain technology is utilized to store the cloud data as a block of chain, and it supports preserving integrity by using a third-party auditor. In the proposed scheme, a novel algorithm is presented to regenerate code based on failure repair. The performance of the proposed scheme is compared in terms of the average time and total cost. It requires less execution time, and the optimization method, i.e., the enhanced fruit fly optimization technique, is also cost-efficient. Thus, the proposed methodology is far better than the existing techniques.
  
    title: Ensuring Attribute Privacy Protection and Fast Decryption for Outsourced Data Security in Mobile Cloud Computing,
    abstract: Although many users outsource their various data to clouds, data security and privacy concerns are still the biggest obstacles that hamper the widespread adoption of cloud computing. Anonymous attribute-based encryption (anonymous ABE) enables fine-grained access control over cloud storage and preserves receivers’ attribute privacy by hiding attribute information in ciphertexts. However, in existing anonymous ABE work, a user knows whether attributes and a hidden policy match or not only after repeating decryption attempts. And, each decryption usually requires many pairings and the computation overhead grows with the complexity of the access formula. Hence, existing schemes suffer a severe efficiency drawback and are not suitable for mobile cloud computing where users may be resource-constrained. In this paper, we propose a novel technique called match-then-decrypt, in which a matching phase is additionally introduced before the decryption phase. This technique works by computing special components in ciphertexts, which are used to perform the test that if the attribute private key matches the hidden access policy in ciphertexts without decryption. For the sake of fast decryption, special attribute secret key components are generated which allow aggregation of pairings during decryption. We propose a basic anonymous ABE construction, and then obtain a security-enhanced extension based on strongly existentially unforgeable one-time signatures. In the proposed constructions, the computation cost of an attribute matching test is less than one decryption operation, which only needs small and constant number of pairings. Formal security analysis and performance comparisons indicate that the proposed solutions simultaneously ensure attribute privacy and improve decryption efficiency for outsourced data storage in mobile cloud computing.,
    introduction: As a promising computing paradigm, cloud computing integrates various technologies to provide services to an increasing number of organizations and individual users. Mobile cloud computing further combines cloud computing with mobile devices and ubiquitous wireless infrastructure. With the rapid development of cloud computing technology, more and more people have uploaded their various types of data, including the highly sensitive data, into clouds either for ease of sharing or for cost saving. However, cloud computing security has been a growing concern. Specifically, data security and privacy concerns have been the biggest obstacles that hamper the widespread adoption of cloud computing. In cloud computing, data are outsourced to the cloud service provider, and people would like to make their private data only accessible to authorized users. Differentiated data access is frequently required in the sense that users with different attributes or roles should be granted different levels of access privileges. Thus, it is desirable to put access policy decisions in the hands of data owners in cloud computing. In mobile cloud computing, high efficiency is also important for a successful security solution. Attribute-based encryption (ABE) is envisioned as a highly promising public key primitive for realizing scalable and fine-grained access control systems, where differential yet flexible access rights can be assigned to individual users. Especially, ciphertext-policy attribute-based encryption (CP-ABE) enables data owners to specify an access policy over a universe of attributes and encrypt the data under the access policy with the corresponding public key components. Decryption is enabled if and only if the user’s attributes match the corresponding access policy.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we propose a novel scheme to enhance the security and efficiency of mobile cloud computing by ensuring attribute privacy protection and fast decryption. The proposed match-then-decrypt technique allows attribute matching to be performed before the actual decryption, significantly reducing the computational overhead. The security-enhanced extension based on strongly existentially unforgeable one-time signatures further strengthens the protection of data in the cloud. Formal security analysis and performance comparisons show that our proposed solutions provide a robust and efficient mechanism for secure data storage and access in mobile cloud environments.
  
    title: Security and Privacy in Smart Health: Efficient Policy-Hiding Attribute-Based Access Control,
    abstract: With the rapid development of the Internet of Things and cloud computing technologies, smart health (s-health) is expected to significantly improve the quality of health care. However, data security and user privacy concerns in s-health have not been adequately addressed. As a well-received solution to realize fine-grained access control, ciphertext-policy attribute-based encryption (CP-ABE) has the potential to ensure data security in s-health. Nevertheless, direct adoption of the traditional CP-ABE in s-health suffers two flaws. For one thing, access policies are in cleartext form and reveal sensitive health-related information in the encrypted s-health records (SHRs). For another, it usually supports a small attribute universe, which places an undesirable limitation on practical deployments of CP-ABE because the size of its public parameters grows linearly with the size of the universe. To address these problems, we introduce PASH, a privacy-aware s-health access control system, in which the key ingredient is a large universe CP-ABE with access policies partially hidden. In PASH, attribute values of access policies are hidden in encrypted SHRs and only attribute names are revealed. In fact, attribute values carry much more sensitive information than generic attribute names. Particularly, PASH realizes an efficient SHR decryption test which needs a small number of bilinear pairings. The attribute universe can be exponentially large and the size of public parameters is small and constant. Our security analysis indicates that PASH is fully secure in the standard model. Performance comparisons and experimental results show that PASH is more efficient and expressive than previous schemes.,
    introduction: Smart health (s-health) is the context-aware augmentation of mobile health in smart cities, providing an opportunity for accurate and efficient prevention of various diseases and accidents. The Internet of Things (IoT) has been widely applied to interconnect available medical resources and provide reliable and effective s-health services. However, data security and privacy issues have become the biggest concerns in s-health. A patient usually expects that his s-health records (SHRs), such as blood pressure and pulse rate, can only be accessed by authorized professional health caregivers. Traditional access control techniques either violate data security or allow only coarse-grained access policies. Attribute-based encryption (ABE) is a promising solution for realizing fine-grained access control. ABE is divided into key-policy ABE (KP-ABE) and ciphertext-policy ABE (CP-ABE). In s-health, CP-ABE is more suitable as it allows SHR owners to establish specific access policies. In CP-ABE, a user’s secret key is associated with a set of attributes, and each ciphertext is embedded with an access policy over attributes. Traditional CP-ABE schemes suffer from policy exposure and limited attribute universe. To address these issues, we propose PASH, a privacy-aware s-health access control system with partially hidden access policies and efficient decryption tests. Our scheme supports a large attribute universe and provides strong security guarantees.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we have proposed PASH, a privacy-aware s-health access control system that ensures data security and user privacy. By employing a large universe CP-ABE scheme with partially hidden access policies, PASH addresses the limitations of traditional CP-ABE schemes. Our scheme hides sensitive attribute values in encrypted SHRs while revealing only generic attribute names, thus protecting user privacy. The efficient decryption test in PASH requires only a small number of bilinear pairings, significantly reducing computational overhead. Security analysis and performance comparisons demonstrate that PASH is both secure and efficient, making it a practical solution for secure data storage and access in smart health environments.
  
    title: Data Security and Privacy Preservation in Cloud Storage Environments based on Cryptographic Mechanisms,
    abstract: Recent technological advances have sparked the popularity and success of cloud computing. This new paradigm is gaining expanding interest since it provides cost-efficient architectures that support the transmission, storage, and intensive computing of data. However, these promising storage services bring many challenging design issues, considerably due to both loss of data control and the abstract nature of clouds. The objective of this survey is to provide a consistent view about both data security concerns and privacy issues that are faced by clients in cloud storage environments. This survey brings a critical comparative analysis of cryptographic defense mechanisms, and beyond this, it explores research directions and technology trends to address the protection of outsourced data in cloud infrastructures.,
    introduction: Technological advances have relieved an explosive growth of digital contents. The U.S. International Data Corporation (IDC) proclaims that the digital universe will grow 40 percent a year during the next decade, unleashing a new wave of opportunities for businesses and people around the world. This proliferation of digital universe continues to rise the demand for new storage and network utilities, along with an increasing need for more cost-effective usage of storage capacities and network bandwidth for data transfer. The use of remote storage systems is gaining expanding interest, namely the Cloud storage-based services, since they provide profitable architectures. These architectures support the transmission, storage, and intensive computation of outsourced data in a pay-per-use business model. However, cloud storage benefits are spoiled by significant and persistent concerns which can badly inhibit adoption of this new IT procurement model. These concerns come primarily from the fundamental virtualization concept where data and services are distributed over a set of networked resources that are managed and controlled by a Cloud Service Provider (CSP). This virtualization concept introduces real damageable vulnerabilities including the confidentiality loss of outsourced data, the data integrity loss, and the data privacy loss. From the perspective of enterprises and citizens, these data security and privacy concerns are quite legitimate, given the latest revelations. In this survey, we aim to provide a critical comparative analysis of cryptographic defense mechanisms for cloud environments.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we have provided a survey of data security and privacy preservation mechanisms in cloud storage environments based on cryptographic techniques. We discussed the various cryptographic defense mechanisms that are available to protect data confidentiality, integrity, and privacy in cloud environments. We also highlighted the current challenges and potential future research directions to enhance data security and privacy in cloud storage services. By understanding and addressing these issues, we can better protect the valuable and sensitive data that is increasingly being stored in the cloud.
  
    title: Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System,
    abstract: A purely peer-to-peer version of electronic cash would allow online payments to be sent directly from one party to another without going through a financial institution. Digital signatures provide part of the solution, but the main benefits are lost if a trusted third party is still required to prevent double-spending. We propose a solution to the double-spending problem using a peer-to-peer network. The network timestamps transactions by hashing them into an ongoing chain of hash-based proof-of-work, forming a record that cannot be changed without redoing the proof-of-work. The longest chain not only serves as proof of the sequence of events witnessed, but proof that it came from the largest pool of CPU power. As long as a majority of CPU power is controlled by nodes that are not cooperating to attack the network, they'll generate the longest chain and outpace attackers. The network itself requires minimal structure. Messages are broadcast on a best effort basis, and nodes can leave and rejoin the network at will, accepting the longest proof-of-work chain as proof of what happened while they were gone.,
    introduction: Commerce on the Internet has come to rely almost exclusively on financial institutions serving as trusted third parties to process electronic payments. While the system works well enough for most transactions, it still suffers from the inherent weaknesses of the trust-based model. Completely non-reversible transactions are not really possible, since financial institutions cannot avoid mediating disputes. The cost of mediation increases transaction costs, limiting the minimum practical transaction size and cutting off the possibility for small casual transactions, and there is a broader cost in the loss of ability to make non-reversible payments for non-reversible services. With the possibility of reversal, the need for trust spreads. Merchants must be wary of their customers, hassling them for more information than they would otherwise need. A certain percentage of fraud is accepted as unavoidable. These costs and payment uncertainties can be avoided in person by using physical currency, but no mechanism exists to make payments over a communications channel without a trusted party. What is needed is an electronic payment system based on cryptographic proof instead of trust, allowing any two willing parties to transact directly with each other without the need for a trusted third party. Transactions that are computationally impractical to reverse would protect sellers from fraud, and routine escrow mechanisms could easily be implemented to protect buyers. In this paper, we propose a solution to the double-spending problem using a peer-to-peer distributed timestamp server to generate computational proof of the chronological order of transactions. The system is secure as long as honest nodes collectively control more CPU power than any cooperating group of attacker nodes.,
    conclusion: We have proposed a system for electronic transactions without relying on trust. We started with the usual framework of coins made from digital signatures, which provides strong control of ownership, but is incomplete without a way to prevent double-spending. To solve this, we proposed a peer-to-peer network using proof-of-work to record a public history of transactions that quickly becomes computationally impractical for an attacker to change if honest nodes control a majority of CPU power. The network is robust in its unstructured simplicity. Nodes work all at once with little coordination. They do not need to be identified, since messages are not routed to any particular place and only need to be delivered on a best effort basis. Nodes can leave and rejoin the network at will, accepting the proof-of-work chain as proof of what happened while they were gone. They vote with their CPU power, expressing their acceptance of valid blocks by working on extending them and rejecting invalid blocks by refusing to work on them. Any needed rules and incentives can be enforced with this consensus mechanism.
  
    title: When Intrusion Detection Meets Blockchain Technology: A Review,
    abstract: With the purpose of identifying cyber threats and possible incidents, intrusion detection systems (IDSs) are widely deployed in various computer networks. In order to enhance the detection capability of a single IDS, collaborative intrusion detection networks (or collaborative IDSs) have been developed, which allow IDS nodes to exchange data with each other. However, data and trust management still remain two challenges for current detection architectures, which may degrade the effectiveness of such detection systems. In recent years, blockchain technology has shown its adaptability in many fields, such as supply chain management, international payment, interbanking, and so on. As blockchain can protect the integrity of data storage and ensure process transparency, it has a potential to be applied to intrusion detection domain. Motivated by this, this paper provides a review regarding the intersection of IDSs and blockchains. In particular, we introduce the background of intrusion detection and blockchain, discuss the applicability of blockchain to intrusion detection, and identify open challenges in this direction.,
    introduction: Currently, cyber-attacks have become even more complicated and advanced. To help detect intrusions in a timely manner, intrusion detection systems (IDSs) are being widely implemented in different types of networks (e.g., education and financial organizations). Based on the deployed location, an IDS can be categorized into host-based IDS (HIDS) and network-based IDS (NIDS). The former mainly monitors the characteristics of a local system and the system events in a host for malicious activities. The latter by contrast monitors network traffic and analyzes network protocols and traffic payloads for suspicious events. Moreover, an IDS can be generally classified into two types based on the detection approaches: signature-based IDS and anomaly-based IDS. The signature-based detection identifies an attack by comparing its stored signatures against observed system or network events for potential incidents. A signature is a kind of pattern describing a known attack or exploit. The anomaly-based detection finds a suspicious activity by identifying significant deviations between its pre-built normal profile and the observed events. A normal profile is often created by monitoring the characteristics of typical activity over a period of time, which can represent the normal behavior related to users, network connections and applications. An alarm could be generated if an abnormal scenario is identified. Such detection systems have proven their capability of protecting the networks they are deployed in against cyber-threats. However, with the increasing number and complexity of intrusions, a single or isolated IDS turns to be ineffective in many scenarios, i.e., can be bypassed by advanced attacks. Without timely detection of cyber-attacks, the whole network is vulnerable to various damages, even the paralysis of the entire network. To enhance the detection capability of an IDS, collaborative intrusion detection systems/networks (CIDSs/CIDNs) have been designed, allowing IDS nodes to collect and exchange required information with each other. For example, by collecting traffic characteristics from different detection sensors, a central server is more sensitive to network anomalies than a single IDS.,
    conclusion: Blockchain technology is an emerging solution for decentralized transactions and data management without the need of a trusted third party. It is an open and distributed ledger, enabling the recording of transactions among various parties in a verifiable way. To date, blockchains have been studied in several domains like healthcare and supply chain management, but there has been little work investigating its potential application in the field of intrusion detection. Motivated by this observation, our work mainly discusses the applicability of blockchain technology to mitigate the challenges of data sharing and trust computation in a collaborative detection environment. We identify that blockchains have a potential impact on the improvement of an IDS, whereas not all IDS issues can be solved with this technology.
  
    title: An ID-Based Linearly Homomorphic Signature Scheme and Its Application in Blockchain,
    abstract: Identity-based cryptosystems mean that public keys can be directly derived from user identifiers, such as telephone numbers, email addresses, and social insurance numbers, and so on. This can simplify key management procedures of certificate-based public key infrastructures and can be used to realize authentication in blockchain. Linearly homomorphic signature schemes allow performing linear computations on authenticated data, and the correctness of the computation can be publicly verified. Although a series of homomorphic signature schemes have been designed recently, there are few homomorphic signature schemes designed in identity-based cryptography. In this paper, we construct a new ID-based linear homomorphic signature scheme, which avoids the shortcomings of the use of public-key certificates. The scheme is proved secure against existential forgery on adaptively chosen message and ID attack under the random oracle model. The ID-based linearly homomorphic signature schemes can be applied in e-business and cloud computing. Finally, we show how to apply it to realize authentication in blockchain.,
    introduction: Nowadays, people have paid attention to the importance of information security. The public-key cryptography plays a critical role in information security. Certificate-based cryptosystems are most widely deployed public-key cryptosystems. They require that the authenticated public-key certificate of an entity be obtained in order to encrypt information for the entity. These certificates need to be generated in large and distributed to many users in communities, and they need to be verified frequently. The management of public-key certificates is cumbersome. To avoid the shortcomings of the use of public-key certificates, Shamir introduced the concept of identity-based cryptography in 1984. The idea is to derive public keys directly from user identifiers, such as telephone numbers, email addresses, and social insurance numbers. The corresponding private key is generated by a combination of the user’s public key and the system-level secret key of a central authority named as Private Key Generator (PKG). Since then, research on ID-based cryptography has made great progress, such as ID-based signature schemes, ID-based encryption schemes, and ID-based key agreement schemes. In 2002, the concept of homomorphic signature was originally proposed by Johnson et al. The notion of homomorphic signature is an important primitive that allows validating computation over authenticated data. Informally, a user can sign multiple messages and produce signatures, which can be verified exactly as ordinary signatures. The homomorphic property provides the special feature that given multiple signatures and some function, anyone can compute a signature on the value without knowledge of the secret signing key. Homomorphic signature schemes can be employed in electronic business and cloud computing. Nowadays, there are many types of homomorphic signatures, such as linearly homomorphic signature schemes, homomorphic schemes supporting polynomial functions, and leveled fully homomorphic signature schemes. However, these schemes belong to certificate-based cryptosystems. Up to our knowledge, there are few homomorphic signature schemes designed in identity-based cryptography. These schemes focus on network coding to prevent malicious nodes from producing pollution attacks, but they are not efficient. Since the management of public-key certificates is cumbersome in certificate-based cryptosystems, it is meaningful to design homomorphic signature schemes in identity-based cryptosystems.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we first formally introduce the concept and security model of ID-based linearly homomorphic signature, then design a new ID-based linearly homomorphic signature scheme. The scheme allows a signer to produce linearly homomorphic signatures and avoids the shortcomings of the use of public-key certificates. Moreover, the scheme is proved secure against existential forgery on adaptively chosen message and ID attack under the random oracle model. ID-based linearly homomorphic signature schemes can be applied in e-business, cloud computing, and blockchain. The proposed scheme not only enhances the efficiency of the signature generation and verification but also ensures data integrity and authenticity in a decentralized environment. This makes it particularly suitable for blockchain applications, where secure and efficient verification of data is crucial.
  
    title: Achieving a Decentralized and Secure Cab Sharing System Using Blockchain Technology,
    abstract: The cab-sharing system provides a platform for drivers and riders with shared trip services, providing significant benefits, such as decreasing traffic congestion, reducing travel costs, and limiting energy consumption, which improve the business of transportation. However, existing cab-sharing systems mainly depend on the centralized authority to provide many services, increasing privacy concerns and facing the single point of failure issue. Also, these systems expose drivers’ or riders’ locations and personal information that increase security issues, and charge high fees for services due to the involvement of third-party providers. Therefore, this paper proposes a decentralized and secure cab-sharing system to provide ride-sharing services using blockchain technology without any trusted third party. The proposed system uses the blockchain structure to preserve the driver’s or rider’s information, such as personal details, travel price, pickup or drop-off locations, departure or arrival date, and time. Furthermore, it implements the reputation feature to rate drivers and riders based on their travel history or behaviors without any centralized authority that allows users to select them based on their past experiences on the system. The proposed architecture is deployed using the Ethereum platform and functionality is designed using smart contracts. The performance evaluation and experimental results show that the proposed system requires low computational overheads and provides an efficient cab-sharing platform.,
    introduction: Nowadays, cab-sharing systems have been gaining lots of popularity with the help of the frequent utilization of smartphones and GPS-equipped devices. Cab-sharing systems allow drivers to fill the vacant seats by allowing riders to share the trip. These systems provide better transportation services with several benefits, such as sharing travel costs, reducing energy or fuel consumption, increasing occupancy, and extending social networks. Over the last few years, various service providers have emerged that offer online ride-sharing features, namely Carpool, Uberpool, Blablacar, and Olashare. According to the ride-sharing market cap, the global ride-sharing market is projected to increase to USD 185.1 billion by 2026. The ride-sharing system offers riders and drivers, who are interested in sharing the trips. Therefore, the users have to share the trip information with the service provider to avail the ride-sharing service. The service provider acts as a trusted or centralized authority to interact with the users and charge service fees for each ride. Thus, centralized authority or provider makes the system more prone to attacks and faces the single point of failure issue. If the service provider is compromised, the whole service is affected, and the user-related data may be leaked, manipulated, or even deleted from the system. For example, attackers hack the personal data of 57 million users and drivers from Uber Technologies in 2017. The company concealed the massive leakage for more than a year and paid around 148 million to settle the data breach investigations. Similarly, in March 2015, Lyft leaked an investor’s 40-page document to public that includes the ride-sharing figures, marketing costs, recent and projected revenue, and other sensitive business details. Moreover, the ride-sharing system involves service providers that charge a high fee of up to 20% to maximize benefits. Therefore, to mitigate the single point of failure issue and eliminate the dependencies on trusted parties, blockchain technology provides a complete distributed solution. Blockchain is a distributed ledger technology that allows multiple entities, who do not trust each other, to transact without involving any central authorities. Blockchain is a linked chain of blocks that is transparent, immutable, verifiable, and managed by the special network nodes called miners. Each block holds a set of transactions verified or committed by miners using consensus algorithms.,
    conclusion: This paper proposes a secure cab-sharing system using blockchain technology to ensure confidentiality, security, and privacy features. The proposed work provides a complete distributed architecture without any trusted authority, and thus, it prevents the single point of failure issue. It implements the attribute-based encryption algorithm with the re-encryption scheme to match the suitable driver for a rider using the travel data access structure. The developed algorithms prevent collusion attacks and solve the rider’s data leakage issue. The proposed work also uses the DPoS consensus algorithm to validate the travel records and generate the block of the blockchain network. The travel information saved in the blockchain network prevents the dispute between the driver and rider. The reputation system of the proposed scheme is used to maintain the positive and negative scores of the users and admin. It provides a more reliable and interactive cab-sharing service system. The performance evaluation and security analysis show that the proposed work is more effective, secure, and reliable than the existing techniques. The proposed encryption algorithm can be utilized in other domains, such as IoT, big data, healthcare, etc. In the future, more services, such as authentication, can be included in the proposed cab-sharing system. Furthermore, digital currency can also be included in the proposed system for paying for the services.
  
    title: Blockchain Technology for Cloud Storage: A Systematic Literature Review,
    abstract: The demand for Blockchain innovation and the significance of its application has inspired ever-progressing exploration in various scientific and practical areas. Even though it is still in the initial testing stage, the blockchain is being viewed as a progressive solution to address present-day technology concerns, such as decentralization, identity, trust, character, ownership of data, and information-driven choices. Simultaneously, the world is facing an increase in the diversity and quantity of digital information produced by machines and users. While effectively looking for the ideal approach to storing and processing cloud data, the blockchain innovation provides significant inputs. This article reviews the application of blockchain technology for securing cloud storage.,
    introduction: In recent years, cloud technology has attained an emerging trend by showing a possibility in both academia and industry for its efficiency and availability. Although it is a widely accepted technology, with an outburst of data origins, there has been an increased issue of storage and usage of data owing to the inability of a conventional data management tool to manage the exponentially growing data. The traditional cloud storage model comprised a back-end platform that could be storage or server, a front-end platform that could be a mobile device or a client and a network, possibly an intranet or internet. Attention is given to cloud technology with this outburst of data origin by the researchers in presenting solutions for the intricacies of storage and usability in cloud storage technology. Cloud computing is usually adopted in military and commercial environments to aid in data storage. The heterogeneous environments of cloud computing are distributed with various components of the hardware and software that are obtained from the vendors, which could introduce incompatibility and vulnerabilities. The security affirmation of inter- and intra-cloud transfer and management of information emerges as a key issue. Cloud computing is a pay-per-use model to enable on-demand, convenient available network access for shared computing resources, such as storage, servers, applications, and networks, which could be provisioned quickly and released with minimum effort of management or interaction with the service providers. Outsourcing computation is a vital service provided by cloud computing, thereby acting as one of the significant advantages of the cloud. With the approach of pay-per-use, the computing resources are used by the cloud, further overcoming the limitations of computationally weak devices by outsourcing their data within the cloud. The user can rent and pay the storage services or utility computation based on the requirement with the help of the cloud services. When compared with traditional storage techniques, the cloud is more flexible and has elasticity. The user device has a limited storage capacity, so the data are stored on the cloud. For the classifier and data, confidentiality is vital because of privacy requirements, and the service provider is not trusted. The major challenge explored and highlighted by the researchers is the processing and storing of data into the cloud. Moreover, while saving the data, the issue of heterogeneity is considered the main challenge for the researchers. This issue of heterogeneity in data storage is termed as big data or large-scale data. The cloud environment and the technology of the blockchain are adapted for this usability. Therefore, for the improvement in the performance of existing applications, these two approaches are combined. Therefore, blockchain is a distributed and safe networking system in which many computers called nodes are stored. This technology is of the utmost importance with many possibilities for transmitting and storing a vast volume of data. It also minimizes costs and improves accuracy.,
    conclusion: This paper proposes a secure cab-sharing system using blockchain technology to ensure confidentiality, security, and privacy features. The proposed work provides a complete distributed architecture without any trusted authority, and thus, it prevents the single point of failure issue. It implements the attribute-based encryption algorithm with the re-encryption scheme to match the suitable driver for a rider using the travel data access structure. The developed algorithms prevent collusion attacks and solve the rider’s data leakage issue. The proposed work also uses the DPoS consensus algorithm to validate the travel records and generate the block of the blockchain network. The travel information saved in the blockchain network prevents the dispute between the driver and rider. The reputation system of the proposed scheme is used to maintain the positive and negative scores of the users and admin. It provides a more reliable and interactive cab-sharing service system. The performance evaluation and security analysis show that the proposed work is more effective, secure, and reliable than the existing techniques. The proposed encryption algorithm can be utilized in other domains, such as IoT, big data, healthcare, etc. In the future, more services, such as authentication, can be included in the proposed cab-sharing system. Furthermore, digital currency can also be included in the proposed system for paying for the services.
  
    title: Decentralized Federated Learning with Adaptive Partial Gradient Aggregation,
    abstract: Federated learning aims to collaboratively train a machine learning model with possibly geo-distributed workers, which is inherently communication constrained. To achieve communication efficiency, the conventional federated learning algorithms allow the worker to decrease the communication frequency by training the model locally for multiple times. Conventional federated learning architecture, inherited from the parameter server design, relies on highly centralised topologies and large nodes-to-server bandwidths, and convergence property relies on the stochastic gradient descent training in local, which usually causes the large end-to-end training latency in real-world federated learning scenarios. Thus, in this study, the authors propose the adaptive partial gradient aggregation method, a gradient partial level decentralised federated learning, to tackle this problem. In FedPGA, they propose a partial gradient exchange mechanism that makes full use of node-to-node bandwidth for speeding up the communication time. Besides, an adaptive model updating method further reduces the convergence rate by adaptively increasing the step size of the stable direction of gradient descent. The experimental results on various datasets demonstrate that the training time is reduced up to 14× compared to baselines without accuracy degrade.,
    introduction: Recent years have witnessed a significant improvement in the Internet of Things. Edge/Remote devices, such as phones, vehicles, and wearable sensors are connected with networks and generate a wealth of data each day. Federated learning has emerged as an attractive paradigm to take advantage of decentralized data. In such settings, the goal is to learn a global shared deep neural network (DNN) model using distributed data. Different from conventional distributed machine learning, the participants in federated learning are connected across the wide area network (WAN), where the bandwidth constraints, and statistical heterogeneity in the user datasets present significant challenges. Of current federated learning solvers, FedAvg has become the de facto scheme for non-convex federated learning. The central server selects a subset of all devices to send the global shared model to devices; after that, the device conducts multiple stochastic gradient descent (SGD) using local samples based on the received shared model. Then, the server randomly selects a subset of devices to upload their local updates. The global model is updated based on the averaging of received updates, and sends to the selected devices.,
    conclusion: To avoid the drawback of network congestion in centralized parameter servers architecture in real-world federated learning scenarios, we explore the possibility of decentralized FL solution, called FedPGA. Taking the insight of philosophy in Adam, we design an adaptive model updating strategy. Our method also reduces the communication overhead by exchanging the partial gradient. The experiments show that FedPGA significantly reduces the training time and maintains a good convergence performance.
  
    title: Blockchain-based Integrity Protection System for Cloud Storage,
    abstract: Data are now an invaluable asset; therefore, in most machine-aided human activities, it guides all organizational decisions. Attacks to data integrity are therefore of paramount importance, as essential organization decisions can be maliciously affected by manipulation of information. This problem is particularly true in cloud computing settings where information owners are unable to monitor basic information elements such as access control and physical data storage. Recently, Blockchain has appeared as an intriguing technology that offers convincing data integrity characteristics among others. In this paper, we design a blockchain-based cloud architecture, focusing the threats of data integrity. We propose a methodology in peer to peer cloud storage to verify integrity based on blockchain, making checking more transparent, open, and publicly available. In this framework, we confirm the data integrity by using merkle trees and design a smart contract for the authentication process. Furthermore, we present an elementary model of an efficient blockchain structure for cloud computing settings. Thus, this methodology helps in enhancing the security and integrity of the cloud storage system.,
    introduction: Data is the main asset nowadays. In various distinct areas, from commerce and insurance cover to healthcare, admin and learning department, it is strategic to drive any company choice. As more and more machine-aided human activities rely on information, believing information has now turned into critically important. At the same moment, the important role of data has created it a desirable destination for attacks aimed at violating the basic CIA characteristics (Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability) that information must follow to be assured. Cyber-attacks on CIA assets trigger various trust deficiencies in data depending on the estate undermined. Specifically, disruption of accessibility keeps data from being obtained for a short span of moment only, but activities can be restarted as quickly as the information is again available. Whereas giving up confidentiality reveals sensitive information, and it cannot be reversed, but underlying information remains obtainable and usable, at least to the level permitted by the damage caused (i.e., an organization perpetrator of information exposure can experience economic implications). Instead, manipulating data integrity has always been an extremely harmful assault which opens the door for critical problems to data trust. Indeed, information manipulation may go unnoticed and maliciously operate activities by removing specific records (i.e., removing inconvenient hints) or changing particular parts of information (i.e., changing the behavior of customers information). Unlike confidentiality and accessibility, there's no route to recover the initial information once integrity is broken, it's wasted indefinitely. As integrity assaults are difficult to recognize and truly effective, we concentrate on data integrity instead of confidentiality or accessibility in this paper. In cloud computing settings, information integrity problems are worsened as information holders hardly regulate where their information is placed, who can effectively tap it, and how. The integrity of data generally protected by using two methods, one is by using cryptographic tools (i.e., message digests, asymmetric encryption) and other by deploying data replication techniques. To protect user's data, cryptographic methods are used to sign consecutive parts of data. Thus, any counterfeited can be identified quickly through signature-based validation techniques. Indeed, an effective attack should need the secret keys violation, therefore, to refresh data signatures and prevent the cryptographic based integrity controls. These assaults are difficult to perform, but they are virtually undetectable once they have been realized. It is therefore strongly recommended that suitable policies for data replication be used to guarantee data integrity anyhow. Duplicating and spreading data across a collection of nodes is critically hampering information integrity: an intruder compromised all the replicated information without detection. This strategy to replication is commonly accepted in reality, such as in cloud computing settings where distributed storage funds are limited. However, while replication certainly raises the load in a cloud environment for an effective assault, cloud suppliers themselves may make deals with intruders to violate data integrity readily. To prevent these collusion assaults and prevent blind faith in the privacy promises asserted by cloud suppliers, we support advanced use of blockchain technology to develop and execute a centralized, safe blockchain-based repository for cloud computing settings. A blockchain is defined as a distributed ledger spread among thousands of diverse nodes. It was used as a public ledger for Bitcoin operations in its first design. Recently, it has acquired considerable attention for the intriguing characteristics it ensures (e.g., consensus, transparent, verifiable, and non-repudiable data). It is practically tough to alter the information stored in a blockchain ledger is the main focus for data integrity protection. The distribution, permanent, and replication features of blockchains initiate their broad implementation in cloud environments. In this paper, we propose a blockchain-based solution for a cloud storage system for tackling integrity-based threats.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we have presented an integrity verification architecture in peer to peer network. It deals with the issue of unreliable traditional verification method by using blockchain technology. It also designs the threat model to analyse the various threats involved in the integrity verification process. Our primary input lies in the rationale for designing a blockchain-based model capable of providing the required data integrity, efficiency, and stabilization. This paper paves the path for possible future works. The route we suggest can be further explored by implementing a functioning model to verify the effectiveness of our alternative in terms of attainable throughput and network performance. In addition, a more detailed and official review of the trade between efficiency and data integrity protection is needed to demonstrate the effectiveness of our layout against recognized risks. The method indeed allows consistency among dispersed replicas to be achieved and the threat handling to be simplified. Finally, research into the effectiveness of achieving more stable blockchains is key to enabling their wide-ranging implementation as secure memory infrastructure, e.g., in cloud computing settings.
  
    title: Enhancing Security of Data in Cloud Storage using Decentralized Blockchain,
    abstract: Nowadays, large amount of data is stored on the cloud which is required to be protected from the unauthorized users. To maintain the privacy and security of data various algorithms are used. The objective of every system is to achieve confidentiality, integrity, availability (CIA). However, the existing centralized cloud storage lacks to provide these CIA properties. So, to enhance the security of data and storing techniques, decentralized cloud storage is used along with blockchain technology. It effectively helps to protect data from tampering or deleting a part of data. The data stored in blockchain is linked to each other by a chain of blocks. Each block has its hash value, which is stored in next block. Thus it reduces the chances of data altering. For this purpose, SHA-512 Hashing algorithm is used. Hashing algorithm is used in many aspects, where the security of data is required such as message digest, password verification, digital certificates and in blockchain. By the combination of these methods and algorithms, data becomes more secure and reliable. However, with the help of various algorithms, the security of the data can be enhanced. Also, Advance Encryption Standard (AES) is used to encrypt and decrypt the data due to the significant features of this algorithm.,
    introduction: Nowadays cloud storage is used to store and retrieve data, which is based on internet for obtaining a more reliable, secure and availability of data instead of utilizing the local storage devices. But the data is very important and it should not be revealed to any unauthorized person, for this purpose encryption method is used to convert this plain data in cipher text and decryption method is used to convert that cipher text into plain text to get back the original data. So, the encryption algorithm plays most important role to make data more secure. To achieve these operations some mathematical calculations are made and it is also possible to explain them practically. This operation provides CIA properties for data and assure that data will remain secure and original. To encrypt and decrypt, data will be divided into chunk of block while performing this operation, there are various algorithm also available which are categorized in two different types. First one is symmetric encryption method, in which data can be encrypt and decrypt with same key. After performing the encryption method data is converted into unreadable form, to get the original message back intended user must have key which is used while encryption process. Then this method reverses its process and data will available in understandable form. Second one is asymmetric encryption method, where two keys are generated, one for encryption and second for decryption. Advance Encryption Standard (AES) is also known as Rijndael algorithm which works up to 128 bits of key length. This algorithm allows key length of three different bits which is 128, 192, 256 bits. To convert plain text into cipher, this encryption is dependent on key length where this algorithm repeats its method several times called rounds to enhance the security of data. For 128 bits it uses 10 rounds, for 192 bits it uses 12 rounds and for 256 bits it uses 14 rounds. Excepting the last round in every case, rest of the rounds are equal to each other. After performing this operation on data encrypted data block is obtained, which is in unreadable form. To get the original data back the reverse procedure of AES algorithm is required perform on encrypted data.,
    conclusion: As per the literature and study we can say that there are certain limitations of centralized storage. So to enhance the security of data we can use decentralized cloud storage. This paper suggests a secure and efficient way to store data on cloud. Blockchain-based cloud storage with data encryption gives data security in decentralized structure. The proposed model is suitable to implement the blockchain structure. The algorithms used to implement the system model is efficient and required less time and give high security for the data which is being stored on cloud. This kind of architecture makes the system more robust and resistant to different security attacks which are performed by unauthorized users who try to steal and disclose the information in data files of user for their benefits.
  
    title: Blockchain-Based Decentralized Public Auditing for Cloud Storage,
    abstract: Public auditing schemes for cloud storage systems have been extensively explored with the increasing importance of data integrity. A third-party auditor (TPA) is introduced in public auditing schemes to verify the integrity of outsourced data on behalf of users. To resist malicious TPAs, many blockchain-based public verification schemes have been proposed. However, existing auditing schemes rely on a centralized TPA, and they are vulnerable to tempting auditors who may collude with malicious blockchain miners to produce biased auditing results. In this article, we propose a blockchain-based decentralized public auditing (BDPA) scheme by utilizing a decentralized blockchain network to undertake the responsibility of a centralized TPA, and also mitigate the influence of tempting auditors and malicious blockchain miners by taking the concept of decentralized autonomous organization (DAO). A detailed security analysis shows that BDPA can preserve data integrity against tempting auditors and malicious blockchain miners. A comprehensive performance evaluation demonstrates that BDPA is feasible and scalable.,
    introduction: Cloud storage has attracted extensive attention from both academic and industrial research communities for its huge advantages of costs, performance and management. Cloud users can reduce the expenditure on software, hardware and services by storing data on public cloud servers. And meanwhile they can access outsourced data efficiently and remotely over the Internet without having to stay nearby their computers. Nowadays, more and more users choose to migrate their local data to the cloud storage that is managed by professional cloud service providers (CSPs) such as Amazon’s cloud and Google’s cloud. Although cloud storage brings a number of benefits for cloud users, data outsourcing has also incurred many critical security issues. One of the most important security concerns is data integrity. In reality, outsourced data may be corrupted because cloud servers may suffer from external rival attacks and internal hardware or software failures. In addition, a cloud server is an independent and untrusted administrative entity and it may delete some cloud data that users have never accessed to save storage space, or hide data loss events to maintain its reputation. Unfortunately, most cloud users often delete locally stored backup data after uploading their data to the cloud server. Due to these abovementioned factors, it is important for users to audit the integrity of their outsourced data periodically.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we propose a decentralized public auditing framework for cloud storage, which eliminates the need for a centralized TPA and resists the influence of tempting auditors. By leveraging blockchain technology and the concept of DAO, our proposed BDPA scheme ensures secure and efficient public auditing. The security analysis demonstrates that BDPA can preserve data integrity against malicious auditors and blockchain miners. Additionally, the performance evaluation shows that BDPA is feasible and scalable, making it a practical solution for cloud storage auditing.
  
    title: Consortium Blockchain-Based Public Integrity Verification in Cloud Storage for IoT,
    abstract: The applications of Internet of Things have emerged in every aspect of people’s life. The volume of data gathered can be enormous. Enterprises and personal consumers are increasingly reliant on cloud storage services instead of local storage. While they enjoy the convenience of cloud storage services, they also worry about the integrity of the cloud-stored data since they do not physically own the data. To enable public integrity auditing, third-party auditors as trusted ones verify data integrity on behalf of the data owner. However, the vulnerability of auditors should also be considered. We propose a consortium blockchain-based public integrity verification system (CBPIV). In CBPIV, the auditor behaviors are recorded in the consortium blockchain so that authorized parties can audit the auditor to see if the verification results are correct. A smart contract is deployed to check the behavior of the auditor automatically, which can trigger alerts for unusual behaviors. The evaluation on both security and performance shows that our proposed scheme is secure and alleviates the burden on data owners of limited computation capability.,
    introduction: The Internet of Things (IoT) has developed rapidly over these years and is greatly influencing various aspects of our life, such as communication, work, consumption of information, and entertainment. The incessant data generated by IoT devices grows exponentially. Cloud computing provides resources as services over the Internet, which seems to be a practical choice for IoT data storage. Owing to its convenience and efficiency, cloud storage service is one of the prominent cloud services among personal users and enterprises. However, once the data are outsourced to a cloud, data owners have no actual control of them, which introduces new security challenges, such as integrity, confidentiality, and privacy issues. Various security incidents by mainstream cloud service providers, such as Google and Amazon, have never ceased in recent years. The data can be deleted or tampered by an untrusted cloud. Data integrity denotes the accuracy and consistency of data, which is essential for analyzing reliable and trustworthy information, especially in the big data era. Thus, it is strongly recommended to check the integrity of the IoT data in the cloud storage environment. The difference between cloud-stored data integrity auditing and local data integrity auditing is that the integrity of cloud-stored data is remotely checked without retrieving users’ data and without keeping local copies of them. This is implemented by challenging the cloud to provide cryptographic proofs of the data instead of the original data, and verifying the proofs on the basis of integrity, correctness, and validity to ensure the cloud service providers keep the data intact. Juels and Kaliski, Jr. proposed the concept of proofs of retrievability (POR) where the cryptographic proofs of the data are check blocks embedded randomly during data encryption by data owners. Ateniese et al. proposed provable data possession (PDP), where homomorphic verifiable tags are employed as the cryptographic proofs to implement public verification.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we propose a consortium blockchain-based public integrity verification system (CBPIV) for cloud storage in IoT environments. By utilizing a consortium blockchain, our scheme records the behaviors of auditors, allowing authorized parties to verify the correctness of auditing results. A smart contract is deployed to automatically check the auditor's behavior and trigger alerts for any unusual activities. Security analysis and performance evaluation demonstrate that CBPIV is secure and efficient, alleviating the computational burden on data owners. The proposed system not only ensures the integrity of cloud-stored data but also enhances the trustworthiness of the auditing process.
  
    title: Application of Blockchain for the Security of Decentralized Cloud Computing,
    abstract: The demand for blockchain and its significant application has progressed in various sectors and practice areas. A blockchain is a digital technology acting as a database that is shared across a network of computers. Although the blockchain is still in the initial stage of testing, it is considered a progressive solution for decentralization, identity, belief, character, ownership of data, and information about choices. The demand for cloud computing networks is also increasing in modern technology. This paper reviews the application of blockchain technology where data kept in securing decentralized cloud storage guarantees data security and credibility of the system. In a decentralized cloud, storage data are encrypted with a cryptographic algorithm technique with a private key from a user. The benefits and performance of the recent technique and system of cryptography motivated especially in decentralized cloud storage. Decentralized cloud storage using blockchain data makes it more secure and avoids many attacking challenges and single points of failure.,
    introduction: Blockchain is a system of recording information in a distributed ledger technology. Blockchain was first introduced by the world public digital ledger as a cryptocurrency bitcoin for economic transactions. Blockchain works in a decentralized ledger and acts as a public and personal database. Most blockchain systems act as public databases. Blockchain operates as a peer-to-peer system where information about transactions isn't controlled by a single centralized entity. The transaction is stored in a chain of blocks, making it publicly accessible to any blockchain member during a very trustworthy system. Blockchain uses consensus mechanisms and cryptography techniques to validate information transactions, guaranteeing the linked blocks against modification and alteration. The characteristics of decentralization, accountability, and security make blockchain an appealing technology. However, data stored in a blockchain ledger is still vulnerable to security issues. Many recent studies discuss the security of blockchain data as decentralized cloud storage. Cloud computing provides resources as services over the internet, which seems to be a practical choice for IoT data storage. Cloud computing is a centralized system that offers benefits like higher speeds, low latency, and higher availability, but it also comes with drawbacks like data hacks and security breaches. This paper proposes a decentralized cloud storage system using blockchain to avoid hacking, single points of failure, and provide a vast backup system.,
    conclusion: In this paper, a general concept of blockchain technology transactions with decentralized cloud computing is proposed to secure cloud storage in a cryptographic algorithm technique. The security of blockchain is continuously improving, but problems still exist and are being actively studied. The proposed system uses cryptography techniques, such as blockchain technology over the decentralized cloud network. Blockchain presents various opportunities for the future of cloud data. Users could control their data and transactions in various areas over the network in a decentralized way. Based on this analysis, it is established that blockchain transaction data can be more secure, protect privacy, and avoid attacks over the decentralized cloud storage network. Additionally, this paper reviewed various existing blockchain implementation algorithms for cloud security. Our system solves the privacy of the decentralized cloud and ensures the security concerns of decentralized cloud storage.
  
    title: Blockchain-Based Medical Records Secure Storage and Medical Service Framework,
    abstract: Accurate and complete medical data are one valuable asset for patients. Privacy protection and the secure storage of medical data are crucial issues during medical services. Secure storage and making full use of personal medical records has always been a concern for the general population. The emergence of blockchain technology brings a new idea to solve this problem. As a hash chain with the characteristics of decentralization, verifiability and immutability, blockchain technology can be used to securely store personal medical data. In this paper, we design a storage scheme to manage personal medical data based on blockchain and cloud storage. Furthermore, a service framework for sharing medical records is described. In addition, the characteristics of the medical blockchain are presented and analyzed through a comparison with traditional systems. The proposed storage and sharing scheme does not depend on any third-party and no single party has absolute power to affect the processing.,
    introduction: Those who have ever visited more than one hospital have likely experienced undergoing a medical examination that was previously performed at another hospital. This phenomenon is caused by the fact that medical data are mainly managed by medical institutions, and there are strict restrictions and regulations on policies and for the transfer and sharing of important personal information, such as medical records. Medical data is scattered throughout various medical institutions, and the data standards of different medical institutions are not uniform, resulting in a low level of interoperability of medical information systems among agencies. In addition, the subjects that can handle medical data are limited. In addition to the patient’s request to transfer and view his or her personal medical record, in principle, medical data transfer and sharing outside the medical institution are not allowed. All of these cause the exchange and sharing of medical data to be very difficult, which seriously hinders its effective.,
    conclusion: Sharing and application of personal medical data are vital for intelligent medicine. However, most medical data are stored in different medical institutions, which leads to medical data being scattered. It is difficult for patients to acquire all their medical records from different medical institutions they have visited. Breaking the information island phenomenon in medical data is an urgent problem that needs a solution. In the meantime, storing, sharing and applying medical data is essential in situations where security and privacy are guaranteed. The blockchain is viewed as a storage supply chain in which every operation may be verified, accountable and immutable. Such inherent characteristics make it a potential solution for healthcare data systems that concerns both sharing and patient privacy. Therefore, the storage scheme and service framework based on the blockchain are proposed for storing, sharing and using medical data in this study. In the future, a medical blockchain network connecting as many medical and health institutions as possible should be established. Valuable medical data can flow safely, conveniently and cost controllable in the medical blockchain network. More application scenarios based on medical blockchain networks are thus developed. Comparing some mature blockchains with traditional systems makes it easier to analyze and discover their advantages and disadvantages, and further improve the safety management scheme of medical data.
  
    title: Cloud-Assisted Secure eHealth Systems for Tamper-Proofing EHR via Blockchain,
    abstract: Cloud-assisted electronic health (eHealth) systems provide medical institutions and patients an efficient way to manage their electronic health records (EHRs). However, it also causes critical security concerns. Since once a medical institution generates and outsources the patients’ EHRs to cloud servers, patients would not physically own their EHRs but the medical institution can access the EHRs as needed for diagnosing, it makes the EHRs integrity protection a formidable task, especially in the case that a medical malpractice occurs, where the medical institution may collude with the cloud server to tamper with the outsourced EHRs to hide the medical malpractice. Traditional cryptographic primitives for the purpose of data integrity protection cannot be directly adopted because they cannot ensure the security in the case of collusion between the cloud server and medical institution.,
    introduction: Modern technologies are steadily becoming integrating part of the health system. Among the existing technologies, electronic health (eHealth) systems, i.e. information systems which store and process patient data to enhance the efficiency of the health system has become, in the past twenty years, an important emerging technology. Compared with traditional paper-based systems, eHealth systems provide a more efficient, less error-prone, and more flexible service for both patients and medical institutions. The wide deployment of eHealth systems has brought deep impact on human society. As modern eHealth systems are data intensive, applying cloud computing technologies in eHealth systems has shown great potential and long list of unprecedented advantages in managing the electronic health records (EHRs) in reality. Such mechanism is also well known as cloud-assisted eHealth systems. In reality, cloud-assisted eHealth systems not only enable medical institutions to efficiently and flexibly manage EHRs with the aid of cloud storage services, but also make a great contribution to the judgement and dispute resolution in medical malpractice.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we have proposed TP-EHR, a blockchain-based secure eHealth system that ensures the confidentiality of outsourced EHRs and prevents outsourced EHRs from illegally modifying. The security of TP-EHR can be guaranteed even if a malicious doctor who generates and outsources EHRs colludes with the cloud server to tamper with the EHRs. TP-EHR is constructed on the Ethereum blockchain, where the EHRs generated by one doctor in a treatment are integrated into a transaction of Ethereum, such that the correctness and integrity of EHRs are based on the security of Ethereum, and the time when the EHRs are generated can be efficiently extracted. The security analysis has demonstrated that TP-EHR is secure against various attacks existing in actual cloud-assisted eHealth systems. We have also conducted a comprehensive performance analysis, which proves that TP-EHR is practical and efficient in terms of communication and computation overhead.
  
    title: Cloud Data Provenance using IPFS and Blockchain Technology,
    abstract: Cloud is widely used for data storage. A user who has uploaded his/her private or commercial data to the cloud is always keen to know whether the data that he/she has stored is secure or not. Access logs of stored data can be used to trace the integrity of the data. Access logs are also known as provenance data. Provenance data contains private information of users. As provenance data can be used to check the integrity so, it becomes very important to securely store the provenance data.,
    introduction: Normally, the provenance data are stored in a centralized database, under the surveillance of a trusted entity which is generally the Cloud Storage Provider (CSSP) itself. However, it is not wise to fully trust the CSSP, as it may tamper the data for its own benefits. For example, CSSP can alter the stored provenance data to hide any unauthorized access, as it has full control on that database. This problem can be solved by storing the provenance data in a distributed manner.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we have presented the design and implementation of a Blockchain and IPFS based cloud data provenance storage and validation mechanism. This proposed technique is fully decentralized in nature unlike the presently available centralized mechanisms for providing trust among the user and CSSP. Our proposed architecture solves the problem by decentralizing the whole architecture. This decentralization pulls the control from the hand of CSSP to provide fair service.
  
    title: Toward Secure Data Sharing for the IoV: A Quality-Driven Incentive Mechanism With On-Chain and Off-Chain Guarantees,
    abstract: Currently, data sharing for the Internet of Vehicles (IoV) applications has drawn much attention in the framework of developing smart cities and smart transportation. A critical challenge for data sharing is to incentivize users to participate in collecting and sharing data. The traditional incentive mechanism of crowdsourcing is not practical for IoV because of its trust issues. Although blockchain technology has been introduced to address trust issues and security challenges, ensuring trust in off-chain data for the blockchain-based approaches is still an open issue. In this article, we propose a quality-driven auction-based incentive mechanism based on a consortium blockchain that guarantees trust in both on-chain data and off-chain data. We first introduce a consortium blockchain that is used as an open and distributed hyperledger to address the security issue of on-chain data. Then, we formulate the problem as a reverse auction in which the platform acts as an auctioneer that purchases data from users. By utilizing a data quality-driven auction model, the evaluated data quality via expectation maximization is used to ensure the trust in off-chain data. The quality-driven, auction-based incentive mechanism can obtain the high-quality data and optimal social welfare with low social cost. Otherwise, we design a smart contract to perform the data sharing automatically. Finally, the extensive simulations show that our proposed algorithm achieves maximum social welfare, outperforms other solutions, and scales well when the number of users or tasks increase. Moreover, the performance of the smart contract shows its low computing cost.,
    introduction: With the introduction of smart cities and increasing traffic pressure, the Internet of Vehicles (IoV), which incorporates mobile cloud computing and vehicular ad hoc networks (VANETs), has drawn much attention from both academic and industrial areas. Numerous IoV services have been provided; for example, a real-time traffic service was proposed to avoid traffic jams and a weather information service was designed to plan departure or arrival times. All these services are constructed using a data sharing system that analyzes the data shared by vehicles in a local area. However, in practice, the users of the IoV are always unwilling to share the data or forward messages. On the one hand, participating in a data sharing procedure is usually resource costing for individual users. On the other hand, there may be a risk of privacy leakage in sensing data such as location information. Thus, determining how to motivate users by designing an incentive mechanism for data sharing for the IoV remains a challenge.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we propose a blockchain-based data sharing incentive mechanism for the IoV with on-chain and off-chain guarantees. Shared data, first as off-chain data, flows to the incentive mechanism. To ensure the quality and trust in the off-chain data, we design a data quality-driven auction (DQDA) to maximize social welfare and choose the high-quality data with low social cost, while the quality of data and actual task condition are evaluated by the expectation maximization (EM) algorithm. Because blockchain is tamper-resistant and traceable, we introduce a consortium blockchain to store the on-chain data after completing the data sharing, such as time stamp and shared data. Moreover, according to the features of a consortium blockchain and data sharing for the IoV, we design an effective consensus process that can function with mere preselected roadside units (RSUs) rather than the whole nodes in the blockchain. Finally, the mathematical proof demonstrates the dependability of our mechanism. The main contributions of this article are as follows: 1) To secure the on-chain data, we introduce a consortium blockchain into our mechanism; it is tamper-resistant and there is no need to build trust between multiple entities and privacy is preserved. Moreover, we design a smart contract for automatic data sharing and use the gas of executing each function to show the computing cost. 2) To consider trust in off-chain data, we design the data quality estimation based on an EM algorithm to learn the actual task data from the task data submitted by participants. 3) We propose a data sharing incentive mechanism for the IoV based on the blockchain and DQDA model in which the blockchain ensures the integrity of the on-chain data and the platform’s verifiable data quality estimation ensures the trust in offline data. We demonstrate that our mechanism encourages the participants to submit the high-quality data and decides auction winners with low computational complexity. 4) We prove that our mechanism is truthful, individual rational, and maximizes social welfare, and that it has low computational complexity in both theoretical analysis and simulations. Otherwise, the simulation result shows that the computing cost of smart contract is low.
  
    title: Improving security of medical big data by using Blockchain technology,
    abstract: Big data refers to a very large and diverse set of data that grow at exponential rates. In the modern healthcare system, medical big data face many security issues due to the presence of hackers and malicious users. Nowadays, medical big data are tremendously benefitted by Blockchain technology due to its several features, namely decentralization, confidentiality, security, privacy, etc. Nevertheless, the conventional cloud and client-server-based information storage models in healthcare are suffering from single-point failure, centralized control of data resources and privacy leakage. This paper explores the usages of Blockchain technology to manage the healthcare system by providing a solution to these problems. Here, a distributed scheme is proposed for data management, which is used to implement Blockchain technology in the healthcare sector. The proposed scheme ensures security by specifying rules with a smart contract. Results and discussions show that the proposed scheme is more efficient than the existing schemes.,
    introduction: Currently, big data is one of the advanced fields of Information Technology (IT) industries that consists of mainly structured and unstructured data. There are many sources of big data, such as streaming data from the Internet of Things (IoT), social media, medical data, publicly available data and many more. The uses of big data have already become common nowadays in IT companies to outperform their peers. It helps the organizations for creating new opportunities and entirely new categories of companies, which analyze industrial data. The IT companies have a large amount of information about the products and services, consumer preferences, buyers’ and suppliers’ information. Big data is also used in some other fields, such as banking, healthcare and many more. Healthcare is a primary consideration for any nation to grow. It is the preservation, control and enhancement of an individual’s wellbeing provided either in-house or remotely by practitioners or practisers. Due to the technological enhancements, healthcare systems are transformed digitally in the form of electronic health records. In addition to the advancement of the analytical techniques in healthcare, medical big data allows medical professionals to extract and interpret medical data in a new spectrum. Medical big data includes medical records of patients, hospital records, reports of medical lab tests and numerous data collected from the devices that are a part of IoT. Due to the advances of technology, healthcare big data is rising exponentially. Therefore, modern technologies are required to manage, extract, secure and store healthcare big data.,
    conclusion: This paper discusses the smart contract architecture for the healthcare system to provide security and privacy of broad-scale medical big data. Despite the technological advancement and development in the healthcare system, it faces some problems, such as single point failure, security and privacy issues, which can be solved by the revolutionary technology, i.e. Blockchain. The proposed scheme supports collecting and sharing medical big data securely, enhances performance and maintains transparency. It also provides an access control mechanism that ensures only authenticated users can access medical big data. In the proposed scheme, an off-chain storage IPFS is used to store the medical big data securely, and users can easily validate the integrity of the health records. In the future, a new module can be included in this proposed architecture to provide direct interactions between patient and doctor for consultation charges. Moreover, some policies can also be defined to manage the healthcare system more efficiently.
  
    title: Time saving protocol for data accessing in cloud computing,
    abstract: Cloud computing is a very trending technology because of its efficiency, cost effectiveness, pay-per-use, flexibility and scalability. Data security and access control are two significant issues experienced while availing these advantages of cloud computing. Access control can be defined as a procedure by which a user can access data or file or any kind of resources from a server. A new data access control model has been proposed in this paper for efficient data accessing, which can minimize many problems, such as high searching time for providing the public key of the data owner, high data accessing time, maintenance of the database, etc. The proposed scheme is evaluated in terms of both theoretical and experimental results, which show the proficiency of the proposed scheme over the existing schemes in a cloud computing environment.,
    introduction: In information technology area, usage of cloud computing technologies are gradually increasing. It offers customers to use the cloud services, when they demand it. Here, in a cloud environment, users require not to worry about the hardware or software. Many business-oriented models have been already developed by cloud computing technique. It can be utilized as a model for business computing in future. There are mainly three entities in a cloud computing environment, namely cloud service provider (CSP), users and data owner (DO). The CSP manages the services. The DO stores data on the cloud server, and the users send requests for accessing data or any kind of services from the cloud server. There are many security concerns in a cloud computing environment. Malicious users or hackers usually create very critical issues in the cloud server. Access control is one of the major issues out of all the issues. Many secure and efficient access control models (ACMs) have been developed by many researchers to solve many issues, such as high data accessing time, high searching cost, system overhead, data security, etc.,
    conclusion: In this paper, a new access control scheme has been proposed, where the CSP does not check the entire cloud database for providing the public key of the data owner. So, the searching time can be reduced for providing the public key of the data owner. The data accessing time can be automatically decreased because of the minimization of the searching time, so users can pay less for utilizing the cloud services. In the proposed scheme, the system overhead can be minimized, and the CSP can efficiently maintain and monitor the database. Theoretical analysis and experimental results prove that the proposed technique can be more effective than the existing schemes.
  
    title: A survey of swarm intelligence for dynamic optimization: Algorithms and applications,
    abstract: Swarm intelligence (SI) algorithms, including ant colony optimization, particle swarm optimization, bee-inspired algorithms, bacterial foraging optimization, firefly algorithms, fish swarm optimization and many more, have been proven to be good methods to address difficult optimization problems under stationary environments. Most SI algorithms have been developed to address stationary optimization problems and hence, they can converge on the (near-) optimum solution efficiently. However, many real-world problems have a dynamic environment that changes over time. For such dynamic optimization problems (DOPs), it is difficult for a conventional SI algorithm to track the changing optimum once the algorithm has converged on a solution. In the last two decades, there has been a growing interest of addressing DOPs using SI algorithms due to their adaptation capabilities. This paper presents a broad review on SI dynamic optimization (SIDO) focused on several classes of problems, such as discrete, continuous, constrained, multi-objective and classification problems, and real-world applications. In addition, this paper focuses on the enhancement strategies integrated in SI algorithms to address dynamic changes, the performance measurements and benchmark generators used in SIDO. Finally, some considerations about future directions in the subject are given.,
    introduction: Swarm intelligence (SI) is an important category of optimization methods. SI is the property of a system whereby the collective behaviours of agents that interact locally with their environment cause coherent functional global patterns to emerge. Different from evolutionary algorithms (EAs), SI algorithms are inspired from simple behaviours and self-organizing interaction among agents, such as ant colonies foraging, bird flocking, animal herding, bacterial growth, honey bees, fish schooling, and so on. The term SI was first used by Beni in cellular robotic system where simple agents organize themselves through neighbourhood interactions and later on established in the field of optimization. The mainstream SI algorithms are ant colony optimization (ACO) and particle swarm optimization (PSO). Less popular SI algorithms include artificial bee colony (ABC), bacterial foraging optimization (BFO), firefly algorithm (FA), artificial fish swarm optimization (AFSO) and many others. Originally, SI algorithms were designed for stationary optimization problems. However, many real-world optimization problems are subject to dynamic environments. Changes in a dynamic optimization problem (DOP) may occur in the objective function, constraints, problem instance, Pareto front or set (in the case of dynamic multi-objective optimization problems) that cause the optimum to change. Hence, DOPs are more challenging to address than stationary optimization problems since repeated optimization of the changing optimum is required.,
    conclusion: This paper discusses various swarm intelligence algorithms and their applications for dynamic optimization problems. It highlights the need for adaptive methods to handle dynamic changes and introduces several enhancement strategies, such as increasing diversity after a change, maintaining diversity during execution, memory schemes, multiple population methods and hybridizations. The survey covers applications in different domains, including transportation, scheduling, and real-world dynamic problems. It also emphasizes the importance of performance measurements and benchmark generators in evaluating the effectiveness of SI algorithms in dynamic environments. Future research directions include the development of more sophisticated benchmark generators, the exploration of hybrid SI algorithms, and the integration of machine learning techniques to enhance the adaptability and robustness of SI algorithms in dynamic optimization.
  
    title: CloudSim: a toolkit for modeling and simulation of cloud computing environments and evaluation of resource provisioning algorithms,
    abstract: Cloud computing is a recent advancement wherein IT infrastructure and applications are provided as ‘services’ to end-users under a usage-based payment model. It can leverage virtualized services even on the fly based on requirements (workload patterns and QoS) varying with time. The application services hosted under Cloud computing model have complex provisioning, composition, configuration, and deployment requirements. Evaluating the performance of Cloud provisioning policies, application workload models, and resources performance models in a repeatable manner under varying system and user configurations and requirements is difficult to achieve. To overcome this challenge, we propose CloudSim: an extensible simulation toolkit that enables modeling and simulation of Cloud computing systems and application provisioning environments. The CloudSim toolkit supports both system and behavior modeling of Cloud system components such as data centers, virtual machines (VMs) and resource provisioning policies. It implements generic application provisioning techniques that can be extended with ease and limited effort. Currently, it supports modeling and simulation of Cloud computing environments consisting of both single and inter-networked clouds (federation of clouds). Moreover, it exposes custom interfaces for implementing policies and provisioning techniques for allocation of VMs under inter-networked Cloud computing scenarios. Several researchers from organizations, such as HP Labs in U.S.A., are using CloudSim in their investigation on Cloud resource provisioning and energy-efficient management of data center resources. The usefulness of CloudSim is demonstrated by a case study involving dynamic provisioning of application services in the hybrid federated clouds environment. The result of this case study proves that the federated Cloud computing model significantly improves the application QoS requirements under fluctuating resource and service demand patterns.,
    introduction: Cloud computing delivers infrastructure, platform, and software that are made available as subscription-based services in a pay-as-you-go model to consumers. These services are referred to as Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS) in industries. The importance of these services was highlighted in a recent report from the University of Berkeley as: ‘Cloud computing, the long-held dream of computing as a utility has the potential to transform a large part of the IT industry, making software even more attractive as a service’. Clouds aim to power the next-generation data centers as the enabling platform for dynamic and flexible application provisioning. This is facilitated by exposing data center’s capabilities as a network of virtual services (e.g. hardware, database, user-interface, and application logic) so that users are able to access and deploy applications from anywhere in the Internet driven by the demand and Quality of Service (QoS) requirements. Similarly, IT companies with innovative ideas for new application services are no longer required to make large capital outlays in the hardware and software infrastructures. By using clouds as the application hosting platform, IT companies are freed from the trivial task of setting up basic hardware and software infrastructures. Thus, they can focus more on innovation and creation of business values for their application services.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we propose CloudSim: an extensible simulation toolkit that enables modeling and simulation of Cloud computing systems and application provisioning environments. The CloudSim toolkit supports both system and behavior modeling of Cloud system components such as data centers, virtual machines (VMs) and resource provisioning policies. It implements generic application provisioning techniques that can be extended with ease and limited effort. Currently, it supports modeling and simulation of Cloud computing environments consisting of both single and inter-networked clouds (federation of clouds). Moreover, it exposes custom interfaces for implementing policies and provisioning techniques for allocation of VMs under inter-networked Cloud computing scenarios. Several researchers from organizations, such as HP Labs in U.S.A., are using CloudSim in their investigation on Cloud resource provisioning and energy-efficient management of data center resources. The usefulness of CloudSim is demonstrated by a case study involving dynamic provisioning of application services in the hybrid federated clouds environment. The result of this case study proves that the federated Cloud computing model significantly improves the application QoS requirements under fluctuating resource and service demand patterns.
  
    title: Multi-Agent Deep Reinforcement Learning for Cooperative Edge Caching via Hybrid Communication,
    abstract: Though caching on edge servers is widely acknowledged to be essential, it is not trivial to cache content on edge servers adaptively without any prior knowledge of the distribution of content popularity across the users. Several edge caching algorithms have been proposed in the literature based on multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) for dynamic control, however, they ignored the non-stationarity and partial-observability issues commonly existing in multi-agent systems. In an MARL-based edge caching application where agents collaborate towards a common goal, communication is essential as their decisions are jointly applied to improve collective intelligence. However, most existing methods proposed to exchange messages between agents have not considered the induced communication overhead, which is critical in practice with real-world multi-agent applications. In this paper, we propose a new MARL framework for edge caching where agents learn to construct, exchange and interpret collective messages for individual benefits, while controlling the complex collaborative task of cache replacement in a communication-efficient manner. With a standard edge caching model, we show that with limited communication and delays introduced, our proposed framework is able to outperform existing rule-based and learning-based caching policy alternatives.,
    introduction: Given the advent of 5G networks, edge caching has been attracting a significant amount of interest in the literature. Content caching has emerged as a technique that allows edge servers that are closer to end users in wireless networks to proactively cache popular data and deliver the requested data to the users. Moreover, edge servers can turn to neighboring edge servers to retrieve the requested data and return them to the users, in which circumstance data traffic is effectively reduced compared to downloading data directly from the data center via backhaul networks. Existing studies have shown the great potential for multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) to design content caching strategies at the network edge. The proposed approaches in these studies easily outperformed heuristic caching schemes. With the collaboration of multiple agents towards a common goal, communication becomes more essential as their decisions are jointly applied whereas each agent only has partial or limited observability of the entire environment. However, none of the existing MARL-based edge caching methods considered inter-agent communication during reinforcement learning control.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we proposed CSNet, a new multi-agent deep reinforcement learning framework incorporating efficient information sharing for wireless edge caching. In CSNet, we combine intra-step and inter-step communication by using successive neural networks to adaptively convert local intelligence to restricted-sized messages, selectively aggregate shared messages into a piece of global knowledge, and also retain history messages. In this way, our approach reduced communication overhead while keeping the essential information in messages to maintain good performance. Our learned bandwidth-efficient communication strategies can facilitate agents’ caching behavior over both rule-based and learning-based caching algorithms.
  
    title: Cache in the air: exploiting content caching and delivery techniques for 5G systems,
    abstract: The demand for rich multimedia services over mobile networks has been soaring at a tremendous pace over recent years. However, due to the centralized architecture of current cellular networks, the wireless link capacity as well as the bandwidth of the radio access networks and the backhaul network cannot practically cope with the explosive growth in mobile traffic. Recently, we have observed the emergence of promising mobile content caching and delivery techniques, by which popular content is cached in the intermediate servers (or middleboxes, gateways, or routers) so that demands from users for the same content can be accommodated easily without duplicate transmissions from remote servers; hence, redundant traffic can be significantly eliminated. In this article, we first study techniques related to caching in current mobile networks, and discuss potential techniques for caching in 5G mobile networks, including evolved packet core network caching and radio access network caching. A novel edge caching scheme based on the concept of content-centric networking or information-centric networking is proposed. Using trace-driven simulations, we evaluate the performance of the proposed scheme and validate the various advantages of the utilization of caching content in 5G mobile networks. Furthermore, we conclude the article by exploring new relevant opportunities and challenges.,
    introduction: Along with recent advances in mobile communication technologies, an ever growing number of mobile users are continuously attracted to enjoy a wide plethora of multimedia services using smartphones and tablets. While the demand for rich multimedia content has increased tremendously in recent years, the capacity of the wireless link, mobile radio network, mobile backhaul, and mobile core network cannot practically cope with the explosively growing mobile traffic due to the centralized nature of mobile network architectures. Indeed, despite the continuous efforts of mobile network operators (MNOs) and network equipment vendors to enhance the wireless link bandwidth by adopting sophisticated techniques at both the physical (PHY) layer and medium access control (MAC) layers in Long Term Evolution (LTE) and LTE-Advanced systems, such as massive multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO), carrier aggregation, and coordinated multipoint (CoMP) transmission, the utilization efficiency of the radio spectrum is notably reaching its theoretical cap. Stemming from the observation regarding the traffic explosion problem, an important portion of mobile multimedia traffic is due to duplicate downloads of a few popular contents (e.g., popular music videos) with large sizes. Therefore, researchers and engineers have been investigating effective ways to reduce the duplicate content transmissions by adopting intelligent caching strategies inside the mobile networks, and enabling mobile users to access popular content from caches of nearby MNO gateways.,
    conclusion: In this article, we have provided an overview of some emerging caching techniques for current 3G, 4G, and future 5G networks, comparing between EPC caching, RAN caching, and CCN-based caching. Based on trace-driven evaluation and related analysis, we have demonstrated that the deployment of in-network caching into mobile networks can potentially help reduce mobile traffic. We have also presented a number of promising research opportunities and relevant challenges, particularly related to distributed cache resource management, cooperative caching policy, and content-aware RAN caching. Conclusively, we have highlighted the roles that NFV, eMBMS, and D2D can play in further improving the gains that can be acquired from caching in mobile networks.
  
    title: Big data caching for networking: moving from cloud to edge,
    abstract: In order to cope with the relentless data tsunami in 5G wireless networks, current approaches such as acquiring new spectrum, deploying more BSs, and increasing nodes in mobile packet core networks are becoming ineffective in terms of scalability, cost, and flexibility. In this regard, context-aware 5G networks with edge/cloud computing and exploitation of big data analytics can yield significant gains for mobile operators. In this article, proactive content caching in 5G wireless networks is investigated in which a big-data-enabled architecture is proposed. In this practical architecture, a vast amount of data is harnessed for content popularity estimation, and strategic contents are cached at BSs to achieve higher user satisfaction and backhaul offloading. To validate the proposed solution, we consider a real-world case study where several hours worth of mobile data traffic is collected from a major telecom operator in Turkey, and big-data-enabled analysis is carried out, leveraging tools from machine learning. Based on the available information and storage capacity, numerical studies show that several gains are achieved in terms of both user satisfaction and backhaul offloading. For example, in the case of 16 BSs with 30 percent of content ratings and 13 GB storage size (78 percent of total library size), proactive caching yields 100 percent user satisfaction and offloads 98 percent of the backhaul.,
    introduction: Nowadays, wireless data traffic is experiencing tremendous growth due to pervasive mobile devices, ubiquitous social networking, and resource-intensive applications of end users with anywhere-anytime-to-anything connectivity. This unprecedented increase in data traffic, chiefly driven by mobile video, online social media, and over-the-top (OTT) applications, is compelling mobile operators to look for innovative ways to manage their increasingly complex networks and scarce backhaul resources. In fact, a major driver of this backhaul problem is wireless video on demand traffic in which users access contents whenever they wish in an asynchronous fashion (unlike live streaming and digital TV), and has unique characteristics (i.e., users’ demands concentrate on a small set of popular contents, resulting in heavy-tail distribution). The explosion of data traffic stemming from diverse domains (healthcare, machine-to-machine communication, connected cars, etc.) with different characteristics (i.e., structured/non-structured) falls into the framework of big data. Indeed, the potential offered by big data has spurred great interest from industry, government, and academia. At the same time, mobile cellular networks are moving toward fifth generation (5G) wireless networks, in which ultra-dense networks, massive multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO), millimeter-wave communication, edge caching, and device-to-device communications are heavily investigated. In contrast to the base-station centric architectures (possibly) designed for dump mobile terminals where requests are satisfied in a reactive way, 5G networks will be user-centric, context-aware, and proactive in nature.,
    conclusion: In this article, we have provided an overview of some emerging caching techniques for current 3G, 4G, and future 5G networks, comparing between EPC caching, RAN caching, and CCN-based caching. Based on trace-driven evaluation and related analysis, we have demonstrated that the deployment of in-network caching into mobile networks can potentially help reduce mobile traffic. We have also presented a number of promising research opportunities and relevant challenges, particularly related to distributed cache resource management, cooperative caching policy, and content-aware RAN caching. Conclusively, we have highlighted the roles that NFV, eMBMS, and D2D can play in further improving the gains that can be acquired from caching in mobile networks.
  
    title: Efficient D2D content caching using multi-agent reinforcement learning,
    abstract: To address the increase of multimedia traffic dominated by streaming videos, user equipment (UE) can collaboratively cache and share contents to alleviate the burden of base-stations. Since content popularity is regional specific and does not have a stationary distribution, a machine learning based caching strategy that exploits the knowledge of content demand history would be highly promising. In this paper, we design D2D caching strategies using multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) with non-perfect content popularity information. Specifically, we model the D2D caching problem as a multi-agent multi-armed bandit problem. Since the joint action space is too large to use traditional MARL methods, a belief-based modified combinatorial upper confidence bound (MCUCB) algorithm is proposed to technically solve the problem. Simulation results show that the belief-based MCUCB caching scheme outperforms other popular caching schemes in terms of cache byte hit rate and average downloading latency.,
    introduction: The explosive growth of smart mobile devices along with mobile internet applications brings great convenience to society. It also brings along tremendous traffic that challenges the design of next generation mobile communication systems. Cisco predicted that mobile traffic will increase 8-folds from 2015 to 2020. A study revealed that a major portion of the increased traffic is the duplicated downloads of popular video files from remote servers. Thus content caching can alleviate to a great extent the congestion in mobile networks. Content distribution networks (CDN) together with Peer-to-Peer (P2P) have been widely used for streaming video traffic in the Internet. In CDN, popular video files are cached in the proxy or intermediate servers so that they can be directly streamed to clients without accessing home servers. Applied to wireless networks, various wireless access nodes (such as access points, base stations) can be used to cache popular video files with benefits of reducing traffic drastically and improve user quality of experience (QoE). Similar to P2P, the device-to-device (D2D) communication in wireless networks was proposed with the main advantage of enabling multiple direct transmissions between pairs of near-by devices in a cellular system. Meanwhile, state-of-the-art user equipment (UE) such as Apple X and Huawei Mate 10 are equipped with AI chips capable of executing AI algorithms in addition to having larger storage, longer battery life and more accurate GPS location. Such advanced features allow UEs to play an active role as caching servers in content distribution. Content distribution in wireless networks is quite different from that in Internet. First, the service coverage of a UE is limited by its transmission power. Second, the hit rate of cached contents could be rather low in mobile D2D networks due to the limited number of users in a cell. Third, although the storage in UEs has greatly increased in recent years, it is still much smaller than that of CDN servers. Therefore, the design of efficient caching strategies is crucial to the successful operation of mobile D2D networks.,
    conclusion: The successful deployment of video streaming in a mobile D2D network faces many challenging problems. First, there are four parties involved, namely the content owner, the content provider, the cellular carrier and the device owners. They need to have their interest aligned. Second, although there are many user-generated-content free for distribution like what we find in YouTube, there are also many copyrighted contents that cannot be redistributed without consent. Ways to track the scope of distribution in D2D networks and ways to collect royalties need to be worked out. Third, the content provider needs to pay for the distribution cost. Like CDN and P2P streaming, D2D network can significantly reduce traffic through intelligent caching as demonstrated in this paper through simulation experiments. Fine-tuning the algorithm for specific traffic parameters and network settings would be of interest. Fourth, direct communication between nearby mobile devices needs a protocol. The participating devices also need to mutual consent to the joint effort of sharing videos. Trust between devices is hard to establish except through a common trusted agent. Who should play the role of this agent? Fifth, could WiFi ad hoc mode be a substitute or a backup? Sixth, the number of neighbors a device has depends on its transmission range. What determines the optimal range? We look forward to suggestions from peer researchers.
  
    title: Deep Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning Based Cooperative Edge Caching in Wireless Networks,
    abstract: The growing demand on high-quality and low-latency multimedia services has led to much interest in edge caching techniques. Motivated by this, we in this paper consider edge caching at the base stations with unknown content popularity distributions. To solve the dynamic control problem of making caching decisions, we propose a deep actor-critic reinforcement learning based multi-agent framework with the aim to minimize the overall average transmission delay. To evaluate the proposed framework, we compare the learning-based performance with three other caching policies, namely least recently used (LRU), least frequently used (LFU), and first-in-first-out (FIFO) policies. Through simulation results, performance improvements of the proposed framework over these three caching algorithms have been identified and its superior ability to adapt to varying environments is demonstrated.,
    introduction: According to [1], the mobile data traffic has grown 17-fold from 2012 to 2017, and 59% of the global mobile data traffic is generated by the demand for videos in 2017. In addition, a 9-fold increase in video data traffic is predicted by 2022, making the mobile video traffic to account for 79% of total mobile traffic. In contrast, the three-fold increase in the mobile network connection speed is expected to be inadequate for satisfying users’ demands on high-quality multimedia streaming services. As a promising technique to reduce the congestion in data traffic, content caching has received considerable attention in recent years. Indeed, caching-based content distribution is employed in content delivery networks (CDNs). CDN is widely adopted to reduce the data congestion near the content server. Usually, to solve the CDN in-network caching problem, routing policy to allocate users’ requests to different servers needs to be addressed. Prior work [2], [3] has focused on jointly solving the caching and routing problems to minimize the service delay. Though the application of CDN has been shown to reduce the data traffic, it can hardly handle the growing mobile data traffic because it is inevitable that the content has to be transmitted through the CDN nodes before arriving at the user. More recently, proactive caching at the wireless network edge, such as at the base stations and user equipments, is proposed. This technique makes it possible to have popular contents to be placed closer to the end users and be directly transmitted, which can effectively reduce the time for routing in CDNs, and apparently save a considerable amount of waiting time for users and offload a portion of data traffic at the CDNs.,
    conclusion: In this work, we have considered edge caching in cellular networks. To solve the dynamic problem of how to make caching decisions based on a partially observable Markov decision process, we have proposed a multi-agent framework based on deep actor-critic reinforcement learning, which enables each base station to make its own caching decision while competing for chances to transmit and also cooperating to achieve minimum overall transmission delay. We have designed the multi-agent actor-critic content caching algorithm. We have analyzed the performance of the proposed framework, and we have provided comparisons among the performances achieved by the proposed framework and three other caching algorithms, namely, LRU, LFU, and FIFO. The performances have been evaluated in terms of the overall average transmission delay reduction. Through simulation results, superior performance of the proposed framework has been demonstrated under different conditions in the experiments, and its excellent ability to adapt to changing environments is highlighted.
  
    title: Intelligent Video Caching at Network Edge: A Multi-Agent Deep Reinforcement Learning Approach,
    abstract: Today’s explosively growing Internet video traffics and viewers’ ever-increasing quality of experience (QoE) demands for video streaming bring tremendous pressures to the backbone network. As a new network paradigm, mobile edge caching provides a promising alternative by pushing video content closer at the network edge rather than the remote CDN servers so as to reduce both content access latency and redundant network traffic. However, our large-scale trace analysis shows that different from CDN based caching, edge caching environment is much more complicated with massively dynamic and diverse request patterns, which renders that existing rule-based and model-based caching solutions may not well fit such complicated edge environments. Moreover, although cooperative caching has been proposed to better afford limited storage on each individual edge server, our trace analysis also shows that the request similarity among neighboring edges can be highly dynamic and diverse, which is drastically different from CDN based caching environment, and can easily compromise the benefits from traditional cooperative caching mostly designed based on CDN environment. In this paper, we propose MacoCache, an intelligent edge caching framework that is carefully designed to afford the massively diversified and distributed caching environment to minimize both content access latency and traffic cost. Specifically, MacoCache leverages a multi-agent deep reinforcement learning (MADRL) based solution, where each edge is able to adaptively learn its own best policy in conjunction with other edges for intelligent caching. The real trace-driven evaluation further demonstrates that MacoCache is able to reduce an average of 21% latency and 26% cost compared with the state-of-the-art caching solution.,
    introduction: Recent years have witnessed the explosive development of video content streaming. The global video traffic has accounted for 75% of the Internet traffic in 2017 and is estimated to grow four-fold by 2022. Meanwhile, people are having increasingly higher demands for quality of experience (QoE) on various kinds of video contents, e.g., in immersive 360-degree videos low latency is critical to guarantee smooth viewing. Thus, such massive video traffic and high QoE demands bring tremendous pressure to the backbone network. Video content caching in content delivery network (CDN) is widely used to reduce duplicated traffic and improve QoE. The traffic between CDN servers and end viewers however can still be largely redundant, which also leads to poor QoEs with large content access latency. Fortunately, mobile edge caching (MEC) provides an alternative solution by pushing video contents closer to end viewers. Particularly, in the emerging 5G network, base stations (BSs) are naturally equipped with edge servers to provide both storage and computation capacity for caching service. Through caching proper video contents at nearby edges, viewers can obtain their target videos locally instead of from remote CDN servers, which not only provides better QoE with lower latency but also saves the core network traffic cost. Compared to CDN servers, the capacity of edge server is usually less abundant for video caching, which highly depends on carefully designed caching strategies to achieve good performance. Meanwhile, today’s content providers mostly use simple rule-based solutions such as Least Recently Used (LRU), Least Frequently Used (LFU) and their variants for ease of implementation. Recently, model-based approaches have proposed specific models according to the caching situations to estimate the corresponding caching strategy, with the content popularity usually assumed to be known.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we propose MacoCache, a novel edge caching framework that leverages multi-agent deep reinforcement learning (DRL) to better boost the edge caching performance so as to minimize both the content access latency and the traffic cost. Through our trace analysis on a real-world video watching dataset, we demonstrate that both the content access patterns and the content similarities among different edge areas are highly heterogeneous and dynamic across both temporal and geographical dimensions. Inspired by the recent advances in deep reinforcement learning and multi-agent learning, we therefore propose a MADRL based approach to well adapt the massively distributed dynamics in the edge caching context and achieve collaborative intelligence for edge caching. The trace-driven evaluation further demonstrates the superiority of our approach compared with the state-of-the-art solutions.
  
    title: Caching Transient Data for Internet of Things: A Deep Reinforcement Learning Approach,
    abstract: Connected devices in Internet-of-Things (IoT) continuously generate enormous amount of data, which is transient and would be requested by IoT application users, such as autonomous vehicles. Transmitting IoT data through wireless networks would lead to congestions and long delays, which can be tackled by caching IoT data at the network edge. However, it is challenging to jointly consider IoT data-transiency and dynamic context characteristics. In this paper, we advocate the use of deep reinforcement learning (DRL) to solve the problem of caching IoT data at the edge without knowing future IoT data popularity, user request pattern, and other context characteristics. By defining data freshness metrics, the aim of determining IoT data caching policy is to strike a balance between the communication cost and the loss of data freshness. Extensive simulation results corroborate that the proposed DRL-based IoT data caching policy outperforms other baseline policies.,
    introduction: With the rapid development of Internet-of-Things (IoT) in areas, including intelligent transportation, smart grid, industrial and home automation, e-Health, and so on, the number of connected devices (e.g., tags, sensors, embedded devices, and hand-held devices) keeps on increasing. Nowadays, there have been already 6 to 9 billion connected devices, while the predicted number of IoT devices in 2020 is expected to be 24 billion. IoT devices generate unprecedented amounts of data, which will be delivered to applications, where the information is processed and analyzed to provide services. These traffic flows create great challenges for today’s storage systems and communication networks. For example, wireless networks will suffer congested wireless backhaul and spectrum overcrowding problems.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we proposed an edge caching-based IoT system framework for caching and transmitting transient IoT data. To minimize the long-term cost of fetching IoT data, we formulated the cache replacement problem as a MDP problem. To solve the formulated problem, a DRL-based caching policy was proposed, which can determine caching policy without any assumptions explicit about the operating environment. Extensive simulation results demonstrated that the proposed DRL-based caching policy outperforms two baseline caching policies for a variety of different network setup parameters, the long-term cost of users fetching IoT data can be decreased. Possible future directions include the following. On the one hand, knowledge from other domains could be utilized to mine more useful features for the caching agent, thus making it easier to converge to the optimal caching policy. On the other hand, cooperative caching in IoT systems with multiple edge nodes (e.g., SBSs) could be taken into consideration. In the scenario of multiple edge nodes, neighboring edge nodes may have overlapping coverage and share cached data between each other. Thus, the caching action taken by an edge node may change the environment experienced by another edge node. To achieve multiple equilibria and avoid reduplicative caching, multiagent DRL could be adopted as an efficient solution.
  
    title: Hurts to Be Too Early: Benefits and Drawbacks of Communication in Multi-Agent Learning,
    abstract: We study a multi-agent partially observable environment in which autonomous agents aim to coordinate their actions, while also learning the parameters of the unknown environment through repeated interactions. In particular, we focus on the role of communication in a multi-agent reinforcement learning problem. We consider a learning algorithm in which agents make decisions based on their own observations of the environment, as well as the observations of other agents, which are collected through communication between agents. We first identify two potential benefits of this type of information sharing when agents’ observation quality is heterogeneous: (1) it can facilitate coordination among agents, and (2) it can enhance the learning of all participants, including the better informed agents. We show however that these benefits of communication depend in general on its timing, so that delayed information sharing may be preferred in certain scenarios.,
    introduction: The study of decentralized decision making under uncertainty by multiple autonomous agents arises in a wide variety of applications, including in wireless and telecommunication networks (e.g., opportunistic spectrum access, dynamic resource allocation), management of the smart grid and electricity markets, the operation of cyber-physical systems, and in a variety of other physical, social, and economic networks. In these scenarios, the outcomes experienced by each agent is affected not only by their own decisions, but also by the actions taken by (a subset) of other agents in the system. An instance of practical interest in these problems is when agents are willing to collaborate in order to achieve a common goal; these are referred to as cooperative games. In these environments, the literature has identified communication or information sharing as a way to facilitate coordination among agents, so that they can collaborate on reaching a shared goal. Examples include the study of communication for multi-robot formation control, autonomous vehicle coordination, and control of microgrids. These works identify optimal communication schemes, agents’ strategies, and the benefits of information sharing, under the assumption of some a priori knowledge about the environment and/or its dynamics. However, the rise of self-organizing multi-agent systems in fully unknown environments, such as those arising in edge computing applications, has introduced an additional challenge for multi-agent systems. In particular, even in the absence of coordination problems, agents face the additional challenge of learning to act in the a priori unknown environment. For instance, a fleet of drones deployed for monitoring climate change or for anti-poaching efforts in a wildlife area, or a team of disaster relief robots, will not only need to coordinate with one another, but at the same time need to learn features of the unknown environment in which they are deployed. The problem of learning to act through repeated interactions with an unknown environment, in the presence of other agents, is the subject of the multi-agent reinforcement learning literature.,
    conclusion: We studied the problem of concurrent learning and coordination of two heterogeneous agents in a partially observable environment, when a better informed agent can share her information with a less informed agent. We formally analyzed the benefits of incorporating this explicit communication in agents’ learning algorithm, and showed that information sharing can enhance coordination and also improve the learning of both agents in the long-run, but that it may hinder coordination and learning in early stages of the cooperative game depending on the initialization of agents’ policies. A main implication of our findings is in the design and operation of self-organizing multi-agent systems in unknown environments, and in particular those based on the edge/fog computing paradigm. In this framework, learning and control are performed primarily by agents residing on the edges of the network. As a result, agents refine their policies and consequently select their actions in a decentralized manner. Our results show that leveraging cloud connectivity for limited communication can be beneficial for multi-agent learning and coordination, given correct timing or when agents are sufficiently patient. It is worth mentioning that our choice of allowing agents to communicate only local observations (rather than, e.g., policies/actions) is motivated not only by the latency and costs of communication, but also by the possibility that agents may in general use heterogeneous learning algorithms and policies, so that communication of information on policies may not be interpretable by all agents. This type of communication is particularly relevant in edge/fog computing scenarios, where heterogeneous policies may be employed by different devices as a result of their computational constraints.
  
    title: Learning Multiagent Communication with Backpropagation,
    abstract: Many tasks in AI require the collaboration of multiple agents. Typically, the communication protocol between agents is manually specified and not altered during training. In this paper we explore a simple neural model, called CommNet, that uses continuous communication for fully cooperative tasks. The model consists of multiple agents and the communication between them is learned alongside their policy. We apply this model to a diverse set of tasks, demonstrating the ability of the agents to learn to communicate amongst themselves, yielding improved performance over non-communicative agents and baselines. In some cases, it is possible to interpret the language devised by the agents, revealing simple but effective strategies for solving the task at hand.,
    introduction: Communication is a fundamental aspect of intelligence, enabling agents to behave as a group, rather than a collection of individuals. It is vital for performing complex tasks in real-world environments where each actor has limited capabilities and/or visibility of the world. Practical examples include elevator control and sensor networks; communication is also important for success in robot soccer. In any partially observed environment, the communication between agents is vital to coordinate the behavior of each individual. While the model controlling each agent is typically learned via reinforcement learning, the specification and format of the communication is usually pre-determined. For example, in robot soccer, the bots are designed to communicate at each time step their position and proximity to the ball.,
    conclusion: We explored a model where cooperating agents learn to communicate amongst themselves before taking actions. Each agent is controlled by a deep feed-forward network, which additionally has access to a communication channel carrying a continuous vector. Through this channel, they receive the summed transmissions of other agents. What each agent transmits on the channel is not specified a-priori, being learned instead. Because the communication is continuous, the model can be trained via back-propagation, and thus can be combined with standard single agent RL algorithms or supervised learning. The model is simple and versatile, allowing it to be applied to a wide range of problems involving partial visibility of the environment, where the agents learn a task-specific communication that aids performance.
  
    title: Learning Attentional Communication for Multi-Agent Cooperation,
    abstract: Communication could potentially be an effective way for multi-agent cooperation. However, information sharing among all agents or in predefined communication architectures that existing methods adopt can be problematic. When there is a large number of agents, agents cannot differentiate valuable information that helps cooperative decision making from globally shared information. Therefore, communication barely helps, and could even impair the learning of multi-agent cooperation. Predefined communication architectures, on the other hand, restrict communication among agents and thus restrain potential cooperation. To tackle these difficulties, we propose an attentional communication model that learns when communication is needed and how to integrate shared information for cooperative decision making. Our model leads to efficient and effective communication for large-scale multi-agent cooperation. Empirically, we show the strength of our model in a variety of cooperative scenarios, where agents are able to develop more coordinated and sophisticated strategies than existing methods.,
    introduction: Biologically, communication is closely related to and probably originated from cooperation. For example, vervet monkeys can make different vocalizations to warn other members of the group about different predators. Similarly, communication can be crucially important in multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) for cooperation, especially for the scenarios where a large number of agents work in a collaborative way, such as autonomous vehicles planning, smart grid control, and multi-robot control. Deep reinforcement learning (RL) has achieved remarkable success in a series of challenging problems, such as game playing and robotics. MARL can be simply seen as independent RL, where each learner treats the other agents as part of its environment. However, the strategies of other agents are uncertain and changing as training progresses, so the environment becomes unstable from the perspective of any individual agent and thus it is hard for agents to collaborate. Moreover, policies learned using independent RL can easily overfit to the other agents’ policies.,
    conclusion: We have proposed an attentional communication model in large-scale multi-agent environments, where agents learn an attention unit that dynamically determines whether communication is needed for cooperation and also a bi-directional LSTM unit as a communication channel to interpret encoded information from other agents. Unlike existing methods for communication, ATOC can effectively and efficiently exploit communication to make cooperative decisions. Empirically, ATOC outperforms existing methods in a variety of cooperative multi-agent environments.
  
    title: Efficient Communication in Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning via Variance Based Control,
    abstract: Multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) has recently received considerable attention due to its applicability to a wide range of real-world applications. However, achieving efficient communication among agents has always been an overarching problem in MARL. In this work, we propose Variance Based Control (VBC), a simple yet efficient technique to improve communication efficiency in MARL. By limiting the variance of the exchanged messages between agents during the training phase, the noisy component in the messages can be eliminated effectively, while the useful part can be preserved and utilized by the agents for better performance. Our evaluation using a challenging set of StarCraft II benchmarks indicates that our method achieves 2− 10× lower in communication overhead than state-of-the-art MARL algorithms, while allowing agents to better collaborate by developing sophisticated strategies.,
    introduction: Many real-world applications (e.g., autonomous driving, game playing, and robotics control) today require reinforcement learning tasks to be carried out in multi-agent settings. In MARL, multiple agents interact with each other in a shared environment. Each agent only has access to partial observations of the environment, and needs to make local decisions based on partial observations as well as both direct and indirect interactions with the other agents. This complex interaction model has introduced numerous challenges for MARL. In particular, during the training phase, each agent may dynamically change its strategy, causing dynamics in the surrounding environment and instability in the training process. Worse still, each agent can easily overfit its strategy to the behaviours of other agents, which seriously deteriorates the overall performance.,
    conclusion: In this work, we leverage the advantages of both the second and third approach. Specifically, we consider a fully cooperative scenario where all the agents collaborate to achieve a common objective. The agents are trained in a centralized fashion within the multi-agent Q-learning framework, and are allowed to communicate with each other during execution. However, unlike previous work, we have a few key insights. First, for many applications, it is often superfluous for an agent to wait for feedback from all surrounding agents before making an action decision. For instance, when the front camera on a autonomous vehicle detects an obstacle within the dangerous distance limit, it triggers the ‘brake‘ signal without waiting for the feedback from the other parts of the vehicle. Second, the feedback received from the other agents may not always provide useful information. For example, the navigation system of the autonomous vehicle should pay more attention to the messages sent by the perception system (e.g., camera, radar), and less attention to the entertainment system inside the vehicle before taking its action. Full communication among the agents leads to a large communication overhead and latency, which is impractical for the real system implementation with strict latency requirement and bandwidth limit (e.g., real-time traffic signal control, autonomous driving, etc). In addition, as pointed out by previous work, excessive amount of communication may introduce useless and even harmful information which could even impair the convergence of learning.
  
    title: Learning Individually Inferred Communication for Multi-Agent Cooperation,
    abstract: Communication lays the foundation for human cooperation. It is also crucial for multi-agent cooperation. However, existing work focuses on broadcast communication, which is not only impractical but also leads to information redundancy that could even impair the learning process. To tackle these difficulties, we propose Individually Inferred Communication (I2C), a simple yet effective model to enable agents to learn a prior for agent-agent communication. The prior knowledge is learned via causal inference and realized by a feed-forward neural network that maps the agent’s local observation to a belief about who to communicate with. The influence of one agent on another is inferred via the joint action-value function in multi-agent reinforcement learning and quantified to label the necessity of agent-agent communication. Furthermore, the agent policy is regularized to better exploit communicated messages. Empirically, we show that I2C can not only reduce communication overhead but also improve the performance in a variety of multi-agent cooperative scenarios, comparing to existing methods.,
    introduction: Deep reinforcement learning has achieved remarkable success in a series of challenging tasks, e.g., game playing. However, many real-world applications require multiple agents to learn to solve tasks collaboratively, such as autonomous driving, smart grid control, and intelligent traffic control. Unfortunately, there exist several challenges impeding the breakthroughs in multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL). On one hand, during training, the agent policy keeps updating, leading to non-stationary environment and unstable model convergence. On the other hand, even for the centralized training and decentralized execution (CTDE) paradigm which is designed to mitigate non-stationarity, such as MADDPG, COMA, VDN, QMIX, QTRAN, and MAAC, it is still hard for agents to act cooperatively during execution, since partial observability and stochasticity can easily break the learned cooperative strategy and result in catastrophic miscoordination.,
    conclusion: We have proposed I2C to enable agents to learn a prior for agent-agent communication. The prior knowledge is learned via the causal effect between agents which accurately captures the necessity of communication. In addition, the agent policy is also regularized to better make use of communicated messages. Moreover, I2C can also serve as a component for communication reduction. As I2C relies on only a joint action-value function, it can be instantiated by many centralized training and decentralized execution frameworks. Empirically, it is demonstrated that I2C outperforms existing methods in a variety of cooperative multi-agent scenarios.
  
    title: Learning to Communicate with Deep Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning,
    abstract: We consider the problem of multiple agents sensing and acting in environments with the goal of maximising their shared utility. In these environments, agents must learn communication protocols in order to share information that is needed to solve the tasks. By embracing deep neural networks, we are able to demonstrate end-to-end learning of protocols in complex environments inspired by communication riddles and multi-agent computer vision problems with partial observability. We propose two approaches for learning in these domains: Reinforced Inter-Agent Learning (RIAL) and Differentiable Inter-Agent Learning (DIAL). The former uses deep Q-learning, while the latter exploits the fact that, during learning, agents can backpropagate error derivatives through (noisy) communication channels. Hence, this approach uses centralised learning but decentralised execution. Our experiments introduce new environments for studying the learning of communication protocols and present a set of engineering innovations that are essential for success in these domains.,
    introduction: How language and communication emerge among intelligent agents has long been a topic of intense debate. Among the many unresolved questions are: Why does language use discrete structures? What role does the environment play? What is innate and what is learned? And so on. Some of the debates on these questions have been so fiery that in 1866 the French Academy of Sciences banned publications about the origin of human language. The rapid progress in recent years of machine learning, and deep learning in particular, opens the door to a new perspective on this debate. How can agents use machine learning to automatically discover the communication protocols they need to coordinate their behaviour? What, if anything, can deep learning offer to such agents? What insights can we glean from the success or failure of agents that learn to communicate? In this paper, we take the first steps towards answering these questions. Our approach is programmatic: first, we propose a set of multi-agent benchmark tasks that require communication; then, we formulate several learning algorithms for these tasks; finally, we analyse how these algorithms learn, or fail to learn, communication protocols for the agents.,
    conclusion: This paper advanced novel environments and successful techniques for learning communication protocols. It presented a detailed comparative analysis covering important factors involved in the learning of communication protocols with deep networks, including differentiable communication, neural network architecture design, channel noise, tied parameters, and other methodological aspects. This paper should be seen as a first attempt at learning communication and language with deep learning approaches. The gargantuan task of understanding communication and language in their full splendour, covering compositionality, concept lifting, conversational agents, and many other important problems still lies ahead. We are however optimistic that the approaches proposed in this paper can play a substantial role in tackling these challenges.
  
    title: TarMAC: Targeted Multi-Agent Communication,
    abstract: We propose a targeted communication architecture for multi-agent reinforcement learning, where agents learn both what messages to send and whom to address them to while performing cooperative tasks in partially-observable environments. This targeting behavior is learnt solely from downstream task-specific reward without any communication supervision. We additionally augment this with a multi-round communication approach where agents coordinate via multiple rounds of communication before taking actions in the environment. We evaluate our approach on a diverse set of cooperative multi-agent tasks, of varying difficulties, with varying number of agents, in a variety of environments ranging from 2D grid layouts of shapes and simulated traffic junctions to 3D indoor environments, and demonstrate the benefits of targeted and multi-round communication. Moreover, we show that the targeted communication strategies learned by agents are interpretable and intuitive. Finally, we show that our architecture can be easily extended to mixed and competitive environments, leading to improved performance and sample complexity over recent state-of-the-art approaches.,
    introduction: Effective communication is a key ability for collaboration. Indeed, intelligent agents (humans or artificial) in real-world scenarios can significantly benefit from exchanging information that enables them to coordinate, strategize, and utilize their combined sensory experiences to act in the physical world. The ability to communicate has wide-ranging applications for artificial agents – from multi-player gameplay in simulated (e.g. DoTA, StarCraft) or physical worlds (e.g. robot soccer), to self-driving car networks communicating with each other to achieve safe and swift transport, to teams of robots on search-and-rescue missions deployed in hostile, fast-evolving environments. A salient property of human communication is the ability to hold targeted interactions. Rather than the ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach of broadcasting messages to all participating agents, as has been previously explored (Sukhbaatar et al., 2016; Foerster et al., 2016; Singh et al., 2019), it can be useful to direct certain messages to specific recipients. This enables a more flexible collaboration strategy in complex environments. For example, within a team of search-and-rescue robots with a diverse set of roles and goals, a message for a fire-fighter (e.g. “smoke is coming from the kitchen”) is largely meaningless for a bomb-defuser.,
    conclusion: We introduced TarMAC, an architecture for multi-agent reinforcement learning that allows targeted continuous communication between agents via a sender-receiver soft attention mechanism and multiple rounds of collaborative reasoning. Evaluation on four diverse environments shows that our model is able to learn intuitive communication attention behavior and improves performance, even in non-cooperative settings, with task reward as sole supervision. While TarMAC uses continuous vectors as messages, it is possible to force these to be discrete, either during training itself (as in Foerster et al. (2016)) or by adding a decoder after learning to ground these messages into symbols. In future, we aim to exhaustively benchmark TarMAC on more challenging 3D navigation tasks because we believe this is where decentralized targeted communication is most crucial, as it allows scaling to a large number of agents with high-dimensional observation spaces. In particular, we are interested in investigating combinations of TarMAC with recent advances in spatial memory, planning networks, etc.
  
    title: Emergence of Grounded Compositional Language in Multi-Agent Populations,
    abstract: By capturing statistical patterns in large corpora, machine learning has enabled significant advances in natural language processing, including in machine translation, question answering, and sentiment analysis. However, for agents to intelligently interact with humans, simply capturing the statistical patterns is insufficient. In this paper we investigate if, and how, grounded compositional language can emerge as a means to achieve goals in multi-agent populations. Towards this end, we propose a multi-agent learning environment and learning methods that bring about emergence of a basic compositional language. This language is represented as streams of abstract discrete symbols uttered by agents over time, but nonetheless has a coherent structure that possesses a defined vocabulary and syntax. We also observe emergence of non-verbal communication such as pointing and guiding when language communication is unavailable.,
    introduction: Development of agents that are capable of communication and flexible language use is one of the long-standing challenges facing the field of artificial intelligence. Agents need to develop communication if they are to successfully coordinate as a collective. Furthermore, agents will need some language capacity if they are to interact and productively collaborate with humans or make decisions that are interpretable by humans. If such a capacity were to arise artificially, it could also offer important insights into questions surrounding development of human language and cognition. But if we wish to arrive at formation of communication from first principles, it must form out of necessity. The approaches that learn to plausibly imitate language from examples of human language, while tremendously useful, do not learn why language exists. Such supervised approaches can capture structural and statistical relationships in language, but they do not capture its functional aspects, or that language happens for purposes of successful coordination between humans. Evaluating success of such imitation-based approaches on the basis of linguistic plausibility also presents challenges of ambiguity and requirement of human involvement.,
    conclusion: We have presented a multi-agent environment and learning methods that brings about emergence of an abstract compositional language from grounded experience. This abstract language is formed without any exposure to human language use. We investigated how variation in environment configuration and physical capabilities of agents affect the communication strategies that arise. In the future, we would like experiment with larger number of actions that necessitate more complex syntax and larger vocabularies. We would also like integrate exposure to human language to form communication strategies that are compatible with human use.
  
    title: Multiagent Actor-Critic for Mixed Cooperative-Competitive Environments,
    abstract: We explore deep reinforcement learning methods for multi-agent domains. We begin by analyzing the difficulty of traditional algorithms in the multi-agent case: Q-learning is challenged by an inherent non-stationarity of the environment, while policy gradient suffers from a variance that increases as the number of agents grows. We then present an adaptation of actor-critic methods that considers action policies of other agents and is able to successfully learn policies that require complex multi-agent coordination. Additionally, we introduce a training regimen utilizing an ensemble of policies for each agent that leads to more robust multi-agent policies. We show the strength of our approach compared to existing methods in cooperative as well as competitive scenarios, where agent populations are able to discover various physical and informational coordination strategies.,
    introduction: Reinforcement learning (RL) has recently been applied to solve challenging problems, from game playing to robotics. In industrial applications, RL is emerging as a practical component in large scale systems such as data center cooling. Most of the successes of RL have been in single agent domains, where modeling or predicting the behavior of other actors in the environment is largely unnecessary. However, there are a number of important applications that involve interaction between multiple agents, where emergent behavior and complexity arise from agents co-evolving together. For example, multi-robot control, the discovery of communication and language, multiplayer games, and the analysis of social dilemmas all operate in a multi-agent domain. Related problems, such as variants of hierarchical reinforcement learning can also be seen as a multi-agent system, with multiple levels of hierarchy being equivalent to multiple agents. Additionally, multi-agent self-play has recently been shown to be a useful training paradigm. Successfully scaling RL to environments with multiple agents is crucial to building artificially intelligent systems that can productively interact with humans and each other.,
    conclusion: We have proposed a multi-agent policy gradient algorithm where agents learn a centralized critic based on the observations and actions of all agents. Empirically, our method outperforms traditional RL algorithms on a variety of cooperative and competitive multi-agent environments. We can further improve the performance of our method by training agents with an ensemble of policies, an approach we believe to be generally applicable to any multi-agent algorithm. One downside to our approach is that the input space of Q grows linearly (depending on what information is contained in x) with the number of agents N. This could be remedied in practice by, for example, having a modular Q function that only considers agents in a certain neighborhood of a given agent. We leave this investigation to future work.
  
    title: Decentralized Control of Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes using Belief Space Macro-actions,
    abstract: The focus of this paper is on solving multi-robot planning problems in continuous spaces with partial observability. Decentralized partially observable Markov decision processes (Dec-POMDPs) are general models for multi-robot coordination problems, but representing and solving Dec-POMDPs is often intractable for large problems. To allow for a high-level representation that is natural for multi-robot problems and scalable to large discrete and continuous problems, this paper extends the Dec-POMDP model to the decentralized partially observable semi-Markov decision process (Dec-POSMDP). The Dec-POSMDP formulation allows asynchronous decision-making by the robots, which is crucial in multi-robot domains. We also present an algorithm for solving this Dec-POSMDP which is much more scalable than previous methods since it can incorporate closed-loop belief space macro-actions in planning. These macro-actions are automatically constructed to produce robust solutions. The proposed method’s performance is evaluated on a complex multi-robot package delivery problem under uncertainty, showing that our approach can naturally represent multi-robot problems and provide high-quality solutions for large-scale problems.,
    introduction: Many real-world multi-robot coordination problems operate in continuous spaces where robots possess partial and noisy sensors. In addition, asynchronous decision-making is often needed due to stochastic action effects and the lack of perfect communication. The combination of these factors makes control very difficult. Ideally, high-quality controllers for each robot would be automatically generated based on a high-level domain specification. In this paper, we present such a method for both formally representing multi-robot coordination problems and automatically generating local planners based on the specification. While these local planners can be a set of hand-coded controllers, we also present an algorithm for automatically generating controllers that can then be sequenced to solve the problem. The result is a principled method for coordination in probabilistic multi-robot domains.,
    conclusion: This paper proposed a layered framework to exploit the macro-action abstraction in decentralized planning for a group of robots acting under uncertainty. It formally reduces the Dec-POMDP problem to a Dec-POSMDP that can be solved using discrete space search techniques. We have additionally formulated an algorithm, MMCS, for solving Dec-POSMDPs and have shown its performance on a multi-robot package delivery problem under uncertainty. The Dec-POSMDP represents a general formalism for probabilistic multi-robot coordination problems and our results show that high-quality solutions can be automatically generated from this high-level domain specification.
  
    title: Continuous Control with Deep Reinforcement Learning,
    abstract: We adapt the ideas underlying the success of Deep Q-Learning to the continuous action domain. We present an actor-critic, model-free algorithm based on the deterministic policy gradient that can operate over continuous action spaces. Using the same learning algorithm, network architecture and hyper-parameters, our algorithm robustly solves more than 20 simulated physics tasks, including classic problems such as cartpole swing-up, dexterous manipulation, legged locomotion and car driving. Our algorithm is able to find policies whose performance is competitive with those found by a planning algorithm with full access to the dynamics of the domain and its derivatives. We further demonstrate that for many of the tasks the algorithm can learn policies “end-to-end”: directly from raw pixel inputs.,
    introduction: One of the primary goals of the field of artificial intelligence is to solve complex tasks from unprocessed, high-dimensional, sensory input. Recently, significant progress has been made by combining advances in deep learning for sensory processing with reinforcement learning, resulting in the “Deep Q Network” (DQN) algorithm that is capable of human level performance on many Atari video games using unprocessed pixels for input. To do so, deep neural network function approximators were used to estimate the action-value function. However, while DQN solves problems with high-dimensional observation spaces, it can only handle discrete and low-dimensional action spaces. Many tasks of interest, most notably physical control tasks, have continuous (real valued) and high dimensional action spaces. DQN cannot be straightforwardly applied to continuous domains since it relies on finding the action that maximizes the action-value function, which in the continuous valued case requires an iterative optimization process at every step.,
    conclusion: The work combines insights from recent advances in deep learning and reinforcement learning, resulting in an algorithm that robustly solves challenging problems across a variety of domains with continuous action spaces, even when using raw pixels for observations. As with most reinforcement learning algorithms, the use of non-linear function approximators nullifies any convergence guarantees; however, our experimental results demonstrate stable learning without the need for any modifications between environments. Interestingly, all of our experiments used substantially fewer steps of experience than was used by DQN learning to find solutions in the Atari domain. Nearly all of the problems we looked at were solved within 2.5 million steps of experience (and usually far fewer), a factor of 20 fewer steps than DQN requires for good Atari solutions. This suggests that, given more simulation time, DDPG may solve even more difficult problems than those considered here.
  
    title: Human-level Control through Deep Reinforcement Learning,
    abstract: The theory of reinforcement learning provides a normative account, deeply rooted in psychological and neuroscientific perspectives on animal behaviour, of how agents may optimize their control of an environment. To use reinforcement learning successfully in situations approaching real-world complexity, however, agents are confronted with a difficult task: they must derive efficient representations of the environment from high-dimensional sensory inputs, and use these to generalize past experience to new situations. Remarkably, humans and other animals seem to solve this problem through a harmonious combination of reinforcement learning and hierarchical sensory processing systems, the former evidenced by a wealth of neural data revealing notable parallels between the phasic signals emitted by dopaminergic neurons and temporal difference reinforcement learning algorithms. While reinforcement learning agents have achieved some successes in a variety of domains, their applicability has previously been limited to domains in which useful features can be handcrafted, or to domains with fully observed, low-dimensional state spaces. Here we use recent advances in training deep neural networks to develop a novel artificial agent, termed a deep Q-network, that can learn successful policies directly from high-dimensional sensory inputs using end-to-end reinforcement learning.,
    introduction: One of the primary goals of the field of artificial intelligence is to solve complex tasks from unprocessed, high-dimensional, sensory input. Recently, significant progress has been made by combining advances in deep learning for sensory processing with reinforcement learning, resulting in the 'Deep Q Network' (DQN) algorithm that is capable of human level performance on many Atari video games using unprocessed pixels for input. To do so, deep neural network function approximators were used to estimate the action-value function. However, while DQN solves problems with high-dimensional observation spaces, it can only handle discrete and low-dimensional action spaces. Many tasks of interest, most notably physical control tasks, have continuous (real valued) and high dimensional action spaces. DQN cannot be straightforwardly applied to continuous domains since it relies on finding the action that maximizes the action-value function, which in the continuous valued case requires an iterative optimization process at every step.,
    conclusion: This work bridges the divide between high-dimensional sensory inputs and actions, resulting in the first artificial agent that is capable of learning to excel at a diverse array of challenging tasks. The DQN method outperforms competing methods in almost all the games and performs at a level that is broadly comparable with or superior to a professional human games tester in the majority of games. The successful integration of reinforcement learning with deep network architectures was critically dependent on our incorporation of a replay algorithm involving the storage and representation of recently experienced transitions. Convergent evidence suggests that the hippocampus may support the physical realization of such a process in the mammalian brain, with the time-compressed reactivation of recently experienced trajectories during offline periods providing a putative mechanism by which value functions may be efficiently updated through interactions with the basal ganglia.
  
    title: Learning Agent Communication under Limited Bandwidth by Message Pruning,
    abstract: Communication is a crucial factor for the big multi-agent world to stay organized and productive. Recently, Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) has been applied to learn the communication strategy and the control policy for multiple agents. However, the practical limited bandwidth in multi-agent communication has been largely ignored by the existing DRL methods. Specifically, many methods keep sending messages incessantly, which consumes too much bandwidth. As a result, they are inapplicable to multi-agent systems with limited bandwidth. To handle this problem, we propose a gating mechanism to adaptively prune less beneficial messages. We evaluate the gating mechanism on several tasks. Experiments demonstrate that it can prune a lot of messages with little impact on performance. In fact, the performance may be greatly improved by pruning redundant messages. Moreover, the proposed gating mechanism is applicable to several previous methods, equipping them the ability to address bandwidth restricted settings.,
    introduction: Communication is an essential human intelligence. It is a critical factor to keep the world in order. Recently, inspired by the communication among humans, Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) has been adopted to learn the communication among multiple artificial agents. However, it remains an open question to apply the existing methods to real-world multi-agent systems because real-world applications usually impose many constraints on communication, e.g., the bandwidth limitation for transmitting messages and the protection of private messages. In order to develop practical communication strategies, these constraints need to be resolved. In this paper, we focus on addressing the limited bandwidth problem in multi-agent communication. As we know, the bandwidth (and more generally, the resource) for transmitting the communication messages is limited (Roth, Simmons, and Veloso 2005; Roth, Simmons, and Veloso 2006; Becker et al. 2009; Wu, Zilberstein, and Chen 2011; Zhang and Lesser 2013). Thus, the agents should generate as few messages as possible on the premise of maintaining the performance.,
    conclusion: We have proposed a gating mechanism, which consists of several key designs like auxiliary task with appropriate training signal, dynamic and fixed thresholds, to address the limited bandwidth that has been largely ignored by previous DRL methods. The gating mechanism prunes less beneficial messages in an adaptive manner, so that the performance can be maintained or even improved with much fewer messages. Furthermore, it is applicable to several previous methods and multi-agent scenarios with good performance. To the best of our knowledge, it is the first method to achieve these in the multi-agent reinforcement learning community.
  
    title: Adaptive and Intelligent Algorithms to Improve IoT Communications Within Smart Cities,
    abstract: Nowadays, almost all applications use Internet of Things (IoT) to modernize their process of data communication. The area of smart cities is considered as an industry whose the exploitation of IoT is in constant increasing. Due to the specific requirements of the smart cities’ applications, especially in terms of QoS (Quality of Services), IoT communications face multiple constraints. The limited resources, whether for devices or for communication links, is considered one important constraint. The frequent changes in the states and situations of devices and communication links make this constraint more complex. Considering this obstacle when designing communication algorithms for the IoT is an active research axis that is conducted in the IoT context. Given the unpredictable and uncertain nature of the situations that can be occurred in the network, it is important that these algorithms be adaptive and intelligent. The objective of the presented work in this paper is the proposition of a new communication solution, named IAAC-IoT (Intelligent and Adaptive Algorithms for IoT Communications), gathering adaptive and intelligent algorithms to improve the QoS and energy consumption within IoT. During the performance evaluation of the IAAC-IoT, we obtained satisfactory performance results in terms of QoS and energy efficiency.,
    introduction: Internet of Things (IoT) became an indispensable communication support for various applications such as e-health, road safety, factories, and smart cities. The acquisition and communication of the IoT data, related to the connected things used by the smart city applications, are ensured by a set of algorithms belonging to the low layers. Therefore, the reliability and the efficiency of the data to be sent to the data center depend on the capacity of these algorithms to be efficient and reliable as well. Moreover, the specificities of the applications, dedicated for the smart cities, should be considered to satisfy as much as possible their requirements mainly in terms of QoS. Considering the IoT environment parameters, that can impact the acquisition and the communication processes, while designing the necessary algorithms, is then important. Indeed, proceeding in such way will allow to satisfy as much as possible the applications requirements in terms of reliability and efficiency. Such objective would not be achieved without considering the adaptability and intelligence aspects while designing the IoT communications solutions.,
    conclusion: We have presented in this paper a new solution, called IAAC-IoT (Intelligent and Adaptive Algorithms for IoT Communications), allowing to improve the communications with much QoS and energy efficiency. Important parameters that have an impact on the IoT communication, are considered when calculating the best route to forward the data. Those parameters allow also to ensure an efficient data flow control in order any congestion situations. All these aspects make the proposed solution intelligent and adaptive allowing then to prevent any empirical situations that can stop or slow down the communications activities. The modeling of IAAC-IoT was made by reflecting as much as possible the main characteristics of the smart cities. The performance evaluation of IAAC-IoT have shown that it improves considerably the QoS and the energy efficiency.
  
    title: The Internet of Things: A Survey,
    abstract: This paper addresses the Internet of Things. Main enabling factor of this promising paradigm is the integration of several technologies and communications solutions. Identification and tracking technologies, wired and wireless sensor and actuator networks, enhanced communication protocols (shared with the Next Generation Internet), and distributed intelligence for smart objects are just the most relevant. As one can easily imagine, any serious contribution to the advance of the Internet of Things must necessarily be the result of synergetic activities conducted in different fields of knowledge, such as telecommunications, informatics, electronics and social science. In such a complex scenario, this survey is directed to those who want to approach this complex discipline and contribute to its development. Different visions of this Internet of Things paradigm are reported and enabling technologies reviewed. What emerges is that still major issues shall be faced by the research community. The most relevant among them are addressed in details.,
    introduction: The Internet of Things (IoT) is a novel paradigm that is rapidly gaining ground in the scenario of modern wireless telecommunications. The basic idea of this concept is the pervasive presence around us of a variety of things or objects – such as Radio-Frequency IDentification (RFID) tags, sensors, actuators, mobile phones, etc. – which, through unique addressing schemes, are able to interact with each other and cooperate with their neighbors to reach common goals. Unquestionably, the main strength of the IoT idea is the high impact it will have on several aspects of everyday-life and behavior of potential users. From the point of view of a private user, the most obvious effects of the IoT introduction will be visible in both working and domestic fields. In this context, domotics, assisted living, e-health, enhanced learning are only a few examples of possible application scenarios in which the new paradigm will play a leading role in the near future. Similarly, from the perspective of business users, the most apparent consequences will be equally visible in fields such as automation and industrial manufacturing, logistics, business/process management, intelligent transportation of people and goods.,
    conclusion: In conclusion, the IoT paradigm represents a significant technological advancement with the potential to profoundly impact everyday life and various industries. The integration of multiple technologies and communication solutions is key to its success. However, several challenges remain, particularly regarding interoperability, security, privacy, and the efficient management of the vast amounts of data generated. The IoT’s future development will rely on continued interdisciplinary collaboration and innovation to address these challenges and fully realize the potential of this transformative technology.
  
    title: Internet of Things: Where to Be Is to Trust,
    abstract: Networks’ creation is getting more and more required, anytime, anywhere. Devices that can participate on these networks can be quite different among them. Sensors, mobiles, home appliances, or other type of devices will have to collaborate to increase and improve the services provided to clients. In the same way, network configuration, security mechanisms establishment, and optimal performance control must be done by them. Some of these devices could have limited resources to work, sometimes even resources restriction not existing, they must work to optimize network traffic. In this article, we center our researching on spontaneous networks. We propose a secure spontaneous ad-hoc network, based on direct peer-to-peer interaction and communities’ creation to grant a quick, easy, and secure access to users to surf the Web. Each device will have an identity in the network. Each community will also have an identity and will act as a unity on a world based on Internet connection. Security will be established in the moment they access to the network through the use of the trust chain generated by nodes. Trust is modified by each node on the basis of nodes behavior.,
    introduction: In one way or another, when we talk about Internet of Things (IoTs) we should think that everyday object that surrounds us could be a proactive actor. Each node, such as fridges, mobile phones, cars, food, plants, or people needs a unique identification in the networks that let identify them when interacting with others. In addition, they will need an identity when connecting to Internet. Nodes will collaborate to provide security. Services such as privacy and authentication will be distributed among the different nodes depending on the node and the network status. A user could interact with house elements, with providers, a hospital, and others. Under this scenario, heterogeneous systems will be able to collaborate to provide services and data to users. As we work with ad-hoc networks, the identification and computation possibilities of all elements will provide a qualitative and quantitative leap in all type of sectors.,
    conclusion: Social networks are getting more and more important as a basis to establish trust chain among users. Each object establishes its trust chain basing on its trust nodes. It is important taking into account the social factor and that of personal relations as a starting point in the configuration of networks of devices, where these devices associate or interact finally with users. Chains of confidence will allow the establishment of groups or communities and unique identities (for the above-mentioned communities) for the access to services as well as for the spreading of group information. Thanks to the group organization we will be able to optimize resources, as well as to avoid the excessive multiplication of the transmitted information.
  
    title: Graph Neural Network-Driven Traffic Forecasting for the Connected Internet of Vehicles,
    abstract: Due to great advances in wireless communication, the connected Internet of vehicles (CIoVs) has become prevalent. Naturally, internal connections among active vehicles are an indispensable factor in traffic forecasting. Although many related research studies have been conducted in the past few years, they mainly designed and/or developed single forecasting models for traffic forecasting. Such models may show ideal performance in some scenarios but lack satisfactory robustness to dynamic scenario changes. To address this challenge, a graph neural network-driven traffic forecasting model for CIoVs is proposed in this work, which is denoted as Gra-TF. In this paper, we regard the dynamics of traffic data as a temporal evolution scenario. With the assistance of ensemble learning, three typical graph-level prediction methods are employed to construct an integrated and enhanced forecasting model. This design utilizes several methods to minimize uncertainty in CIoVs. Finally, we use a real-world dataset to build an experimental scenario for further assessment. Numerical results indicate that the proposed Gra-TF improves the prediction accuracy by 30% to 40% compared with several baseline methods.,
    introduction: With the continuous improvement of wireless communication, the connected Internet of vehicles (CIoVs) will become a universal medium in the 5G era. Through collaborative network relationships and complex social graph analysis, intelligent transportation systems are constructed so that people can obtain transportation services anytime and anywhere. Similar to generally prevalent applications such as social IoT, it is believed that the mobile CIoVs can provide personalized travel services to users in the future. Traffic prediction in CIoVs is an important task and has received increased attention with the development of artificial intelligence. One of the most typical basic requirements of CIoVs is to accurately predict future road traffic flows using a collaborative network. The goal of traffic flow prediction is to calculate the traffic flow value at a subsequent time according to the flow values at several previous times and the correlations between the nodes in the road network. Obviously, capturing the timing of numerical sequences and integrating the impact between road network nodes are not easy tasks. Due to the complexity and realistic demands of this problem, traffic data prediction in CIoVs has become a main concern in academic circles in recent years.,
    conclusion: We have proposed a graph neural network-driven traffic forecasting model for the connected Internet of vehicles (Gra-TF) that integrates several classical methods to predict traffic flow. Our approach uses ensemble learning to combine graph convolutional networks (GCNs), Chebyshev networks (ChebNets), and graph attention networks (GATs) to minimize uncertainty and improve prediction accuracy. Experimental results demonstrate that Gra-TF achieves a 30% to 40% improvement in prediction accuracy compared to several baseline methods. This work demonstrates the effectiveness of combining multiple graph-based models to enhance the robustness and accuracy of traffic flow predictions in the CIoVs environment.
  
    title: Green Industrial Internet of Things Architecture: An Energy-Efficient Perspective,
    abstract: The Internet of Things (IoT) can support collaboration and communication between objects automatically. However, with the increasing number of involved devices, IoT systems may consume substantial amounts of energy. Thus, the relevant energy efficiency issues have recently been attracting much attention from both academia and industry. In this article we adopt an energy-efficient architecture for Industrial IoT (IIoT), which consists of a sense entities domain, RESTful service hosted networks, a cloud server, and user applications. Under this architecture, we focus on the sense entities domain where huge amounts of energy are consumed by a tremendous number of nodes. The proposed framework includes three layers: the sense layer, the gateway layer, and the control layer. This hierarchical framework balances the traffic load and enables a longer lifetime of the whole system. Based on this deployment, a sleep scheduling and wake-up protocol is designed, supporting the prediction of sleep intervals. The shifts of states support the use of the entire system resources in an energy-efficient way. Simulation results demonstrate the significant advantages of our proposed architecture in resource utilization and energy consumption.,
    introduction: With the rapid development of industrial informatization, the Internet of Things (IoT) has been considered an extremely important and promising component of the future transformation of industrial systems. By leveraging radio-frequency identification (RFID) and more general sensors, industrial plants and equipment may be protected by high-quality surveillance and control based on a wide range of wireless and intelligent devices. Industrial IoT (IIoT) systems are becoming more complicated with growing scales, which leads to a number of significant challenges that need to be considered, such as increasing energy consumption. In the early stages, one of the purposes to adopt IIoT was to reduce resource consumption and carbon emissions of industrial systems. However, IIoT systems themselves, including a diversity of involved devices with sensing, processing, and communications capabilities, consume substantial amounts of energy and lead to an increasing carbon footprint. On the other hand, IIoT systems typically consist of low-power devices supported by batteries, which constrains the continuous operations of IIoT systems.,
    conclusion: This paper proposed a layered framework to exploit the macro-action abstraction in decentralized planning for a group of robots acting under uncertainty. It formally reduces the Dec-POMDP problem to a Dec-POSMDP that can be solved using discrete space search techniques. We have additionally formulated an algorithm, MMCS, for solving Dec-POSMDPs and have shown its performance on a multi-robot package delivery problem under uncertainty. The Dec-POSMDP represents a general formalism for probabilistic multi-robot coordination problems and our results show that high-quality solutions can be automatically generated from this high-level domain specification.
  
    title: Energy-Efficient Industrial Internet of Things: Overview and Open Issues,
    abstract: The last few decades have witnessed an explosive growth of the Internet-of-Things (IoT) systems, which provide ubiquitous sensing and computing services. When adopted in industrial and manufacturing environments, IoT is referred to as the industrial IoT (IIoT), which has attracted increasing research attention. Energy efficiency is one of the most important research topics in green IIoT, as 1) the limited resource can significantly affect the lifetime of IIoT systems and 2) massive sensors, devices, machines keep consuming a considerable amount of energy, and increasing the carbon footprint. In this article, we present a comprehensive survey on energy-efficient communications and computation mechanisms in IIoT systems (such as smart grids). We categorize the existing works, review, discuss, and compare the works to explore their pros and cons. We also discuss the open issues and research challenges, considering the recent 5G communications and edge computing trends.,
    introduction: In the last few decades, the Internet of Things (IoT) has gained widespread attention and acceptance as a novel paradigm due to the enormous progress obtained in the wireless communications and microelectronics. IoT, when applied to the industrial environments, is termed as industrial IoT (IIoT). As an essential subset of the IoT systems, IIoT has attracted much attention from both industry and academics as a cutting-edge technology for the manufacturing industries, and spawned lots of novel concepts related to industrial scenarios, such as surveillance, sensor validation, digital twins, etc. IIoT connects massive mobile digital devices, manufacturing machines, industrial equipment, etc. The devices include RFID tags, CRFID tags, ZigBee/LoRa-based sensors, etc. Those devices keep generating tremendous data and signals used for sensing, controlling, system maintenance, and data analysis. The communication and computation tasks on the “things” in IIoT, apparently, will consume substantial energy. Considering the limited resources on the IIoT devices, energy efficiency in IIoT is a crucial problem in a number of innovative IIoT systems such as smart grids, smart cities, and electronic health. Smart grid is a typical IIoT system in which massive monitoring sensors are placed with the electricity meters to continuously measure, transmit condition data and control messages. The sensing and communication tasks are highly energy-consuming and directly affect the lifetime of the smart grid system. In other harsh industrial scenarios, such as the production industry and mining, energy efficiency is also a critical issue.,
    conclusion: The promising potential of the emerging IoT inspired the interests from the industry domain in deploying IoT to achieve industrial applications such as automated monitoring, control, and management. However, with the increasing number of involved devices, the resulted IIoT system may consume substantial amounts of energy, which was considered as the bottleneck for preventing its spread. The issues of energy efficiency in IIoT systems were attracted significant attention from both academia and industry. This article presented an overview of the energy efficiency development of IIoT, especially from communication and computation point-of-view. We first introduced the background and key enabling technologies in IIoT. Then, based on the transmission range, the energy-efficient communication technologies are discussed in terms of short-range and long-range IIoT systems. In addition, we also reviewed the energy-efficient offloading schemes in edge/fog computing IIoT systems. Finally, main challenges are highlighted along with potential research directions, in order to shed light towards green and efficient IIoT systems.
  
    title: Reliable and Real-Time Communication in Industrial Wireless Mesh Networks,
    abstract: Industrial wireless mesh networks are deployed in harsh and noisy environments for process measurement and control applications. Compared with wireless community networks, they have more stringent requirements on communication reliability and real-time performance. Missing or delaying of the process data by the network may severely degrade the overall control performance. In this paper, we abstract the primary reliability requirements in typical industrial wireless mesh networks and define three types of reliable routing graphs for different communication purposes. We present efficient algorithms to construct them and describe the recovery mechanisms in the event of component failures. Based on these graphs, data link layer communication schedules are generated to achieve end-to-end real-time performance. We demonstrate through extensive experimental results that our algorithms can achieve highly reliable routing, improved communication latency and stable real-time communication in large-scale networks at the cost of modest overhead in device configuration.,
    introduction: Wireless process control has been increasingly recognized as an important technology in the field of industrial process management. Several industrial organizations such as ISA, HART and ZigBee have been actively pushing the application of wireless technologies in industrial automation. However, compared with wireless community networks, the industrial control environment is harsher and noisier and thus has more stringent requirements on reliable and real-time communication. Missing or delaying the process data may severely degrade the quality of control. The shifting of wireless signal strength with time and location, the mobility of the control devices and the power limitation due to battery usage make the problem even worse. Accordingly, network management techniques adapted for industrial wireless mesh are critically important.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we study the problem of how to achieve reliable and real-time communication in industrial wireless mesh networks. Taking WirelessHART as an example, we abstract the reliability requirements in typical wireless industrial process control applications and present algorithms for constructing reliable routing graphs for different communication purposes. We describe how to generate the communication schedules based on these routing graphs, and demonstrate our approach’s unique features to enhance scalability. Extensive simulations are also conducted to evaluate the performance of our algorithms.
  
    title: REO: A Reliable and Energy Efficient Optimization Algorithm for Beacon-Enabled 802.15.4–Based Wireless Body Area Networks,
    abstract: Nowadays, due to the advancements in microelectronics and wireless communications, Wireless Body Area Networks (WBANs) have gained significant attention. They have various application fields including telemedicine, military, sports, and entertainment, which require contradictory Quality of Service (QoS) in terms of reliability, delay, energy, and simplicity. Medium Access Control (MAC) protocols play an essential role in finding a solution to these tradeoffs. Many ongoing research activities, primarily based on the low power IEEE 802.15.4 standard, tried to improve the WBAN performance by MAC parameter adjustment but, to the authors’ knowledge, none were able to properly satisfy delay and reliability requirements. In this paper, a numerical MAC optimization algorithm is proposed for the Beacon-enabled IEEE 802.15.4-based WBANs, optimizing the delay, reliability, and energy tradeoffs based on the existing traffic and QoS requirements. The simulation results show that in comparison with similar works, the energy efficiency and reliability are improved by at least 14% and 25%, respectively while reducing the delay substantially.,
    introduction: With the emergence of the Internet of Things (IoT) and Digital Transformation, using wireless technology in daily life is getting more common. Wireless Body Area Network (WBAN) is formed by implementing wireless sensors and processing devices within or around a human body. Biomedical sensors receive information from the human body or the environment and send it to a gateway, which afterward is sent to a (medical) center for diagnosis and/or emergency response. WBAN has several applications, such as telemedicine (including remote monitoring of vital signals and automatic medicine delivery), military, sports, and entertainment, which differs from other wireless protocols in terms of delay, reliability, energy, human safety, security, and coexistence requirements.,
    conclusion: With the emergence of IoT, utilizing wireless technology in daily living activities is becoming more common. WBAN-based remote monitoring of the elderly and patients is one of the developing use cases. Increasing the battery life while having low latency and high reliability is one of the most challenging QoS tradeoffs in these networks. In this paper, a simple but accurate analytical model was proposed for the beacon-enabled IEEE 802.15.4-based WBANs to modify the MAC parameters appropriately and superframe duty cycle to optimize the battery life. Simulation results proved the effectiveness of the method. Considering the most common medical sensors and assuming total traffic of 50 Kbps, the packet size, slotted CSMA/CA parameters and superframe duty cycle were optimized to satisfy the required medical deadlines while providing the maximum reliability. The proposed method outperforms similar works; the energy consumption and reliability were enhanced by at least 14% and 25%, respectively while reducing the end-to-end delay substantially. IEEE 802.15.4 has various other application fields, including smart homes and industrial automation. In the future, we will optimize the IEEE 802.15.4 MAC parameters similarly for industrial and smart home applications.
  
    title: Designing of Combinatorial Communication Networks Using Efficient Heuristic Tabu Search Algorithm,
    abstract: Designing a good network is a well-known NP-hard problem that involves the selection of a subset of possible links or network topology in order to minimize the network overhead and cost. To overcome this problem, we are using a novel algorithm based on cloud computing techniques for designing communication networks, considering both throughput and reliability. The proposed method is known as the Tabu search algorithm. We apply the heuristic Tabu search algorithm to maintain a reliable communication topological network. Our approach compares the performance and throughput of this algorithm with the conventional Tabu search method, demonstrating its efficiency and results through various simulated tests.,
    introduction: A communication network can be defined as the combination of nodes and links. Nodes may be in the form of a person, switches, routers, etc., and links are paths by which we connect two nodes, where one node is the source and another node is the destination. Source node is defined as the node from where the information is transferred and destination node is where the information is received. In network communication, various types of overhead occur such as delay problems, throughput problems, and packet transfer or receive problems. All these problems occur due to poor topological design, which decreases the reliability of the communication network. Efficient topology design is crucial for improving network reliability, minimizing delays, and enhancing overall network performance.,
    conclusion: Significant problem knowledge is required to perform the most basic steps of the development of any Tabu Search procedure, namely the choice of a search space and an effective neighbourhood structure. Tabu search is a powerful algorithmic approach that has been applied with great success to many difficult combinatorial problems. A particularly nice feature of Tabu search is that it can quite easily handle the complicating constraints that are typically found in real-life applications. Our study shows that the heuristic Tabu search algorithm increases the reliability of the network without increasing the cost, minimizes delay, and significantly enhances throughput. Future work will focus on optimizing the Tabu search algorithm for various network applications to further improve communication reliability and efficiency.
  
    title: Challenges and Limitations of Internet of Things Enabled Healthcare in COVID-19,
    abstract: The emerging challenges in healthcare, especially with the coronavirus (COVID-19) crisis, has changed the way healthcare operates. Countries where the pandemic has hit hard have brought healthcare institutes to the verge of collapsing, where the capabilities of healthcare departments and hospitals are tested over and over. In these challenging circumstances, the technology alternatives are stressed as never before, and the need for transformation of healthcare from traditional techniques to technology-driven healthcare solutions is advocated. While the Internet of Things (IoT) and other healthcare technologies (machine learning, cloud, edge computing, security) have been under development for years, none of the developments were planned to sustain immense pressure, such as that experienced during pandemics and special circumstances. Therefore, a suitable transformation in healthcare technologies is very desirable to cope with the exacerbating world healthcare infrastructure. This article discusses the role of IoT and intelligent healthcare services in emerging health-related threats and challenges. It discusses the limitations, challenges, and future of IoT in health crises. The article also stresses extensive healthcare infrastructure, which benefits from IoT, artificial intelligence, distributed control, cognitive decision support services, security and privacy, blockchain, and cloud and edge services.,
    introduction: The Internet of Things (IoT) has played an indispensable and vital role in building some aspects of these emergency healthcare establishments with network wearables, patient monitoring devices, and life-saving ventilator systems. IoT in healthcare provides ubiquitous sensing and computing services. When adopted in industrial and manufacturing environments, IoT is referred to as the industrial IoT (IIoT), which has attracted increasing research attention. Energy efficiency is one of the most important research topics in green IIoT, as the limited resource can significantly affect the lifetime of IIoT systems and massive sensors, devices, machines keep consuming a considerable amount of energy, and increasing the carbon footprint. This paper discusses how IoT is integrated with healthcare to provide real-time updates, remote monitoring, and emergency response. The advent of a rapidly changing world situation in this pandemic highlights the need for a more streamlined and dedicated interconnected medical system to access and analyze evolving data trends.,
    conclusion: The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed the global healthcare infrastructure to unprecedented circumstances. Consequently, hospitals and primary care resources are severely overwhelmed worldwide. Without any discrimination, the developed countries are equally affected by COVID-19 as underdeveloped countries having limited resources and poor healthcare infrastructure. In such circumstances, it is necessary to introduce technology-driven solutions to the problem. IoT offers a potential solution to limit the overwhelming burden faced by healthcare worldwide. However, the current development in IoT and other supporting technologies is insufficient to offer the desired support to healthcare infrastructure. Therefore, suitable developments in IoT and the extended IoT framework, benefiting from AI, cloud services, network edge processing distributed control, cognitive decision support, blockchain, and critical decision making are essential for improved overall resilience and reduced health system vulnerability.
  
    title: A QoS-Based Routing Algorithm Over Software Defined Networks,
    abstract: Video streaming requires reliable transmission and a steady network to satisfy the video users and applications QoS needs. The network service must provide and meet a certain level of performance to accommodate these QoS, especially in Smart City environments, but current Internet best-effort service does not guarantee QoS. Software-defined networking (SDN) is an approach intended to separate the network control and data (forwarding) planes to get better management and optimization, which clearly enhances the planning and development of smart urban communities. In this paper, we propose a dynamic QoS algorithm over SDN to select the optimum path that meets video QoS in order to optimize the quality of experience (QoE). We differentiate the traffic based on video resolution QoE parameters to Standard Definition (SD) and High Definition (HD). The results demonstrate that the proposed method obtained better viewing quality for a smart community environment and increases the overall network throughput.,
    introduction: Recently, there has been continuous growth in video consumption by Internet users, accompanied by the development in the technology of real-time video sessions, like IPTV and Internet video services. According to Seufert et al. (2015), the video traffic represented 57% of all Internet traffic in 2012, and probably this percentage has doubled these days due to the spread of social media and the diversity of video applications. Undoubtedly, video streaming requiring guaranteed performance which entails a particular requirement from the networks, those types of applications characterized as real-time (strict latency), rate-critical (specific data rate), and mission-critical (certain degree of reliability) applications. Hence a good Quality of Service (QoS) is essential to stream video over the network and enhancing the Quality of Experience (QoE). The Internet best-effort service created the lacking deployment of network QoS on Internet architecture since there are problems associated with current used short path routing. First, multiple metrics are hard to use in making routing decisions. Besides, it must consider only optimal cost paths, while cannot exploit the feasible routes. In contrast, the QoS-based routing (QBR) concept appears to provide routing solutions that could achieve the quality needs. The basic idea is to determine network paths to various metrics to supply acceptable QoS for significant application flows, using some knowledge of resource availability in the network, also it must monitor and adapt with QoS parameters variations at network links.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we proposed a flow-based routing strategy for video streaming. The primary goal of the routing strategy emphasized meeting two routing constraints, packet loss, and bandwidth. It efficiently determines feasible paths for each video flow according to the current state of the whole network, like in a smart city. We took advantage of SDN to implement our state-dependent routing scheme by benefiting from the controller global view of the network. It can be used for video surveillance and video delivery in smart cities and smart urban communities. Simulation results have shown that the solution mechanism offers higher video QoE. Moreover, the results suggest that HD videos are impacted more than SD video when there is more packet loss, because it obtains more frame artifacts and color distortions.
  
    title: Performance Evaluation of MPTCP Incast Based on Queuing Network,
    abstract: Multipath TCP (MPTCP) is an important protocol, which is used to solve the incremental communication mode in wireless communication networks (WCNs) and data center networks (DCNs) realizing the balance of data transmission and increase the aggregation bandwidth. However, With the wide application of multi host hosts, in the FatTree topology, a performance bottleneck exists that causes throughput collapse in the Incast communication pattern leading to the collapse and seriously affects the network energy. In this paper, based on the queuing network and the Markov property of the MPTCP scheduling process, we propose a multilevel cooperative MPTCP Incast performance evaluation model whose levels are called M/M/N/mI→M/M/L/mII→M/M/K/mIII to study the delay performance in MPTCP Incast throughput collapse. The M/M/N/mI→M/M/L/mII→M/M/K/mIII levels respectively describe the three levels of data packet arrival, which include the bottleneck links and transmission hotspot Top-of-Rack (ToR) switches in the edge layer, the bottleneck links in the aggregation layer, and the bottleneck links in the transmission layer. This model can calculate the average delay of end-to-end data transmission, which can be used to better analyze the delays involved in the MPTCP Incast throughput collapse. Using NS3 software, we verified the accuracy of the proposed models. The experimental results show that the estimated delays of the proposed model are close to the actual measurement delays and that the edge layer delay proportion is higher. These results help to verify the MPTCP Incast performance bottleneck in the edge layer and provide a theoretical basis for further MPTCP Incast research.,
    introduction: Many-to-one communication patterns are widely used in data center networks (DCNs) and include cluster-based storage systems and applications based on MapReduce. However, such patterns can cause a severe throughput drop under the TCP protocol. With the appearance of IPv6, multihomed hosts have become increasingly popular—in fact, multihomed hosts are increasing even for IPv4. Based on multihomed technology, MPTCP supports the multiplexing of redundant link resources to achieve load balancing. In the past decade MPTCP has become an important focus of research in Internet fields for solving the TCP Incast problem. While MPTCP is expected to relieve bottlenecks, it suffers from a throughput collapse problem in the Incast communication pattern. In this pattern, the receiver undergoes a dramatic drop in throughput when it requests data from multiple servers simultaneously. The next round of data packets cannot be transmitted until all the senders complete the parallel transmission of the current round. In a DCN multihomed FatTree topology, when multiple subflows transmit data over different paths in the edge layer, the subflow traffic belonging to the same MPTCP connection can be load-balanced across multiple links; however, subflow traffic belonging to different MPTCP connections compete with Top-of-Rack (ToR) cluster buffer pool resources, forming a special many-to-one transmission pattern. Because commercial Ethernet switches have smaller buffer pools, a large number of packets are buffered from the ToRs, and the large numbers of links and ToRs may become bottlenecks. Hence, performance analysis on MPTCP Incast networks differs from performance analysis on a traditional network because it must focus not only on one subflow but also consider the interaction between different subflows. In addition, because MPTCP follows the packet-loss mechanism of the traditional TCP/IP protocol, some packet losses are unable to achieve Fast Retransmission and Recovery (FRR). The retransmission timeout (RTO) is much longer than the round-trip time (RTT) in end-to-end transmission. When subflows experience different delays—and especially when one of the subflows has a retransmission timeout problem—the resulting large number of retransmissions can cause link idleness and reduce the performance of multiple subflows, causing throughput drops at the receiver. Therefore, it is necessary to analyze the MPTCP Incast collapse problem and study the performance transmission delay of bottleneck links and the ToRs cluster in the MPTCP Incast data-packet forwarding process.,
    conclusion: In this paper, based on the queuing network and the Markov property of the MPTCP scheduling process, we proposed a performance model M/M/N/mI→M/M/L/mII→M/M/K/mIII to calculate the average delay of end-to-end data transmission that is better able to analyze the delays that occur in MPTCP Incast throughput collapse. A conducted simulation experiment verified that the model yields the same average delay trends as the actual transmission process and that the proportion of the delay is higher in the edge layer. These results indicate that the modeling method matches the reality and can be used to verify the performance bottlenecks of MPTCP Incast in the edge layer. In addition, this model provides a theoretical basis for future MPTCP Incast research. As our research progresses, many additional aspects are worthy of followup studies. To avoid MPTCP Incast collapse, we plan to propose a method based on the ToRs cluster cache allocation and design a queueing cache balance factor to calculate a subflow congestion window value. Moreover, receiver throughput should also be considered; therefore, we plan to establish a throughput prediction and optimization model under a bandwidth guarantee.
  
    title: SPEECH‐MAC: Special purpose energy‐efficient contention‐based hybrid MAC protocol for WSN and Zigbee network,
    abstract: Energy-efficient Zigbee-based wireless sensor network (WSN) occupies a major role in emergency-based applications. The foremost drawback of such applications is maintaining the battery power because frequent changing is not possible in those conditions. In the earlier days, several researches created new model MAC protocols in terms of increase the lifetime of the WSN. But still, there is a research gap particularly in emergency applications. In order to improve the lifetime of such applications, we introduced a novel hybrid MAC protocol, namely, special purpose energy-efficient contention-based hybrid MAC (SPEECH-MAC) protocol. This protocol includes dual hop concept considerably to save the energy. Both the single hop network and the dual hop networks are developed, and the results are analyzed. Prioritization mechanism for SPEECH-MAC protocol is introduced to analyze the emergency conditions in detail. In summary, according to the simulation, the calculated parameters are total residual energy, end-to-end delay, packet drop, packet delivery ratio, and network throughput.,
    introduction: Wireless sensor networks (WSNs), known to be huge wireless network, consist of enormous number of small gadgets to cooperatively monitor and collect data from the environmental conditions in real time and that can be sent to the command centers through wireless channels. The small device generally referred as sensor nodes comprises of sensors, energy source, microcontroller, and wireless communication device. Mobility of nodes, dynamic network topology, and large scale of deployment are the WSN unique characteristics. On other hand, WSN has some of the important constraints on resource energy, speed of computation, cost, size, and bandwidth. Many research teams are still working on the WSN to overcome practical challenges in the real time. This incorporated large-scale network applications which comprises of very small gadgets and suitable for information extraction from the external environment then performing easy process on the extracted information to send it to remote areas. Efficient outcome in this area definitely will help in huge development of military and civil applications.,
    conclusion: The most important issues, which need to be addressed, are increasing the energy efficiency and reducing the energy consumption and data delivery performance of the network. The proposed SPEECH-MAC protocol greatly increased the residual energy up to 75% even in huge traffic scenario. Our proposed method performs better than other recently introduced MAC protocols such as ADMC-MAC and SDHTDA-MAC. As a result, proposed method performed well in terms of total residual energy, latency, throughput, and PDR. By the way, due to the combination of hybrid MAC, Zigbee, and WSN, there is some interference issues occurred in our research. In future work, to further improve the energy efficiency, reduction of interference and overall performance improvement of the network is concentrated, so we planned to introduce enhanced version of optimization technique in clustering-based WSN. The algorithm will be suitable for multiweight cluster model and intercluster and intracluster communication systems. In our future work, we planned to concentrate on hybrid optimization technique to solve the major issues of WSN, which are imbalance path fixing and large amount of energy consumption that reduced the network lifetime during the process of communication between the source and the destination.
  
    title: Improving IoT Communications Based on Smart Routing Algorithms,
    abstract: Due to the recorded success by Internet of Things (IoT) technology, more and more domains use it as a communications and exchange network such as e-health, smart cities, vehicles, etc. IoT do not stop integrating an important number of components and objects that are characterized by their complexity and heterogeneity. Such constraints make the existing routings protocols unsuitable for IoT communications. To accomplish all the expected tasks and satisfy the user services, it is important to guarantee a quality of communication that answers to the requirements of the various applications in terms of data and processing (availability, integrity, efficiency, etc.). The objective of our work in this paper is to propose a smart and efficient routing algorithm to improve the IoT communications performance. The proposed method is called SERA (Smart and Efficient Routing Algorithm) which is based on self-organization of the communications between devices according to their new parameters. The evaluation of SERA has shown that SERA improves considerably the IoT communications performance in terms of some QoS and energy efficiency parameters.,
    introduction: The progress that has been recorded these last years in terms of communications technologies have changed our living way and have connected all the different devices around us. The continued growth of the number of these devices brings up a new concept called Internet of Things (IoT). The components of such networks don’t stop to be more and more complex and intelligent which are usually designed by one more generic word: the devices (things). Due their fast and easy deployment, the IoT presents several advantages compared to classical networks namely in terms of efficiency, flexibility and scalability. Despite all the advantages of IoT and in order to ensure better exploitation of such technology, several problems need to be addressed. In addition to the specific constraints of the wireless communication medium, other ones are related to connected devices (their large number, the diversity of their architectures, the continuous change of their parameters, etc.). Without addressing all these constraints, the exploitation of IoT as a communication and exchange support for the applications would not be effective. This justify the need to either adapt the existing protocols and architectures to the demands of applications or to propose new ones.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we proposed an efficient and smart routing algorithm SERA (Smart and Self-Organized Routing Algorithm) to improve the IoT communications. SERA exploits the acquired experience by the sent packets on the used route to evaluate its effectiveness factor compared to the other possible routes. This factor is calculated according the communication parameters and to the new situation of the networks. SERA recorded better results compared to three other routing algorithms in terms of QoS parameters and devices lifetime. Based on the obtained results, we can say when SERA is used as routing algorithm improves considerably IoT communications. To reflect as much as possible the whole aspects of the IoT communications, we plan in our future works to extend the proposed SERA solution by considering more communication parameters. Moreover, some experimentation will be conducted to better assign meaningful values to the different parameters that affecting the IoT communications and allowing understand better the impact of the coefficients , α and β. The functionalities of other layers (such as transport and MAC) can be considered and integrated to SERA. In the end, the proposed SERA solution can be adapted to more complex and smart applications such as smart cities and e-health.
  
    title: New Reliable Self-Adaptive Routing Protocol for Vehicular Ad Hoc Network,
    abstract: In order to effectively predict reliability of the link between two vehicles of VANETs (Vehicular ad hoc networks) and design a reliable routing protocol to satisfy various applications requirements, we analyze the details about motion characteristics of the vehicle and the reasons that cause links disconnect in this paper. We evaluate the reliability of links and introduce it as an important parameter to design a novel routing protocol. The Q-Learning algorithm is used to dynamically adjust the routing path through interaction with the surrounding environment. Based on these, a new reliable self-adaptive routing protocol (RSAR) is proposed. The experimental results show that the performance of RSAR protocol is very good on delivery rate and delay.,
    introduction: In VANETs (Vehicular ad hoc networks), wireless communication can be divided into two kinds: vehicle to infrastructure (V2I) communication and vehicle to vehicle (V2V) communication. Because V2V has the characters that it doesn’t rely on infrastructure and its deployment is flexible, it is favored by many researchers. Different from traditional MANETs, VANETs has some characteristics. Due to the topology in VANETs changes frequently and the link is unreliable, the traditional routing protocols based on MANETs are difficult to be applied into VANETs, such as Ad hoc On-demand Distance Vector (AODV), Dynamic Source Routing (DSR), etc. These protocols have a lower delivery ratio and a high transmission delay because they didn’t consider the rapid topology changes. In order to overcome the problem, some routing protocols based on geographic location are proposed in recent years, such as TFOR and GyTAR. These routing protocols do not need to consider the topology changes, just use GPS to locate the destination node, and are designed by estimating traffic flow, but it does not consider the link reliability between nodes. Some reliable routing protocols are proposed, such as SLBF and EG-RAODV. These protocols are designed by adding parameters as link reliability between nodes and packet error rate. It can improve the packet delivery ratio in a certain extent, but cannot guarantee the time delay.,
    conclusion: We evaluate the link reliability between nodes as a parameter and apply it in Q-Learning algorithm, thus propose the RSAR algorithm. Simulation experiments are conducted to evaluate the performance of 4 routing including packet delivery ratio, end-to-end time delay and number of hops. The results show that RSAR has a higher packet delivery ratio of packets under various conditions and a low transmission time delay. RSAR can effectively solve the problems caused by the change of topology through self-learning.
  
    title: Smart and Self-Organized Routing Algorithm for Efficient IoT Communications in Smart Cities,
    abstract: Internet of Things (IoT) does not stop integrating an important number of components and objects that are characterised by their complexity and heterogeneity. Such constraints make the existing routing protocols unsuitable for IoT communications in a smart cities environment. To accomplish all the expected tasks and satisfy the user services, it is important to guarantee a quality of communication that answers to the requirements of smart cities applications in terms of data and processing. This study addresses the problem of the performance degradation of IoT communications in smart cities and proposes a new routing algorithm to improve them. The proposed algorithm is called SSRA (smart and self-organised routing algorithm), which can select the best route for the packets. SSRA allows a self-organising routing process according to a new situation of the network and devices parameters recently detected. When using SSRA, the communication records an improvement in performance in terms of packet delivery rate, throughput, end-to-end delay and overhead packets. SSRA extends also the devices lifetime by allowing fair and efficient energy consumption.,
    introduction: The evolution of technology in the areas of wireless networks and microelectronics conducted to the emergence of a new generation of networks is called Internet of Things (IoT). The components of such networks do not stop to be more and more complex and intelligent designed usually by one more generic word which is the objects or devices. The particularity of IoT is the fact that they do not require any fixed installation and configuration, in contrast to other types of networks. Therefore, their installation and deployment are easy, and their use is increasingly solicited by all areas such as the smart cities. Smart city can be defined as the utilisation of the information and communication technologies, and recently IoT, to transform the cities from simple to smart. Such goal is achieved by exploiting different smart services of such as smart infrastructure, smart transportation, smart energy, smart health and smart technology.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we proposed a new smart and self-organised mechanism for better and efficient IoT communications in smart cities called SSRA. It is situated at the routing layer and proposes an efficient manner to select the best route to forward packets from their sources to the destinations. SSRA exploits the acquired experience by the sent packets on the used route to calculate the effectiveness factor for this route. The calculated factors are managed in smart and self-organised manner according to the communication parameters and to the new situation of the smart cities networks. When using the proposed SSRA solution, the obtained results showed better performance compared to three other routing solutions which are AODV, REL and CASCR. SSRA improves important QoS parameters namely the packets delivery rate and the end-to-end delay. In addition to its communication quality improvement, SSRA improves also the network performance in terms of devices lifetime and the energy consumption. Based on all these results, we can say that SSRA represents an efficient, smart and self-organised routing solution for IoT communications in smart cities.
  
    title: Self-organizing Technique for Improving Coverage in Connected Mobile Objects Networks,
    abstract: Despite the multiple benefits offered today by connected mobile objects networks (CMONs), some constraints continue to limit their development and to degrade their applications and services’ performance. Given their limited energy, some or many objects may stop functioning which leads to the deterioration of network functionalities such as monitoring, detection and transfer of data. It is in this context that our work is situated, namely the improvement of applications performance and the quality of service (QoS) within CMONs, by exploiting some communication environment parameters and geometry techniques. We propose a new technique called self-organization area coverage (SOAC) for CMONs which aims to ensure maximum coverage in the network while optimizing the exploited resources. SOAC has been evaluated and compared not only to the network without improvement but to two other solutions proposed in the literature. The obtained results show a clear improvement in terms of network coverage and several QoS parameters.,
    introduction: Several intelligent networks and systems have emerged recently (like smart water networks, smart grid, smart cities and homes, intelligent transportation) which they are connecting all our world more than we ever thought possible. The common characteristic of such systems and networks is the exploitation of wireless communications to ensure the connections between the different objects able to be mobile. The emergence of CMONs is one of the most important advances in technology that the world of networks and telecommunications has recorded in these last years. Such environment could be conceptually defined as a dynamic network with self-configuring capabilities. It is based on standard and interoperable communication protocols. In these networks, every physical or virtual object has its own identity and attributes. Intelligent interfaces are used by all these objects which are seamlessly integrated into the information network. The meaning of objects here implies their ability to be intelligent and the diversity of their nature (devices, sensors, robots, drones, etc). For the rest of our paper, the different objects of this network will be designated by one more generic word which is node.,
    conclusion: The work presented in this paper is situated at the intersection of two important areas namely the CMONs and self-organizing systems. We started by presenting the proposed SOAC technique which aims to improve the global coverage within CMONs while optimizing the exploited resources. We act directly on the connected nodes by changing two of their parameters which are the mobility and the communication range. We used simulations in order to evaluate the performance of SOAC and performed several scenarios with different number of nodes. Important metrics have been considered namely network coverage, end-to-end delay, lifetime of the nodes and energy consumption. For the different simulations and with the all scenarios studied, SOAC has recorded an important improvement compared to three others solutions proposed in the same context.
  
    title: Load Balancing Algorithm for Efficient and Reliable IoT Communications within E-Health Environment,
    abstract: The objective of the work carried out in this paper is to propose a novel load balancing algorithm that adapts the functioning of transport layer to the characteristics of the IoT (Internet of Things) communications when applied to e-health applications. The proposed algorithm is called LBA-Ie (Load Balancing Algorithm for IoT communications within e-health environment) and it is based on the integration of IoT communication parameters in the flow control process supported by TCP (Transmission Control Protocol). LBA-Ie is self-organized and adaptive algorithm by taking into account the changes occurred within the network, the links situations and the objects parameters. LBA-Ie is evaluated in terms of QoS (Quality of Service) and energy efficiency. The simulation results are compared to those obtained by three other solutions. LBA-Ie improves the QoS of IoT communications by increasing the data reliability which improves then the e-health applications. LBA-Ie allows also economizing the consumed energy by the objects and increase then their average lifetime.,
    introduction: IoT [1] is integrating more and more objects belonging to different architectures and families. Such objects are equipped with an unlimited intelligence and are able to provide the most solicited services. Today, IoT is the key of the modernization and the digitization of all application areas such as e-health [2][3]. An example of the exploitation of the connected objects and IoT in the context of e-health is given in Figure 1. A local IoT network is deployed by the e-health application to monitor the patient and provide the different data related to his health states. E-health applications are distinguished from other by their demands in terms of QoS, in particular the reliability of data and their transmission delays. In order to satisfy these requirements, it is necessary to consider the characteristics of the connected objects with the IoT. In fact, these objects are characterized by a very limited resources and using vulnerable and sensitive wireless support in order to communicate. All the IoT communications constraints must be taken into account in the transport process of e-health data. This leads us to focus on the communication protocols that are responsible for this transport process namely TCP [4].,
    conclusion: The objective of our work through this paper is the proposition of a novel load balancing algorithm, called LBA-Ie, in order to adapt the functioning of TCP to the characteristics of the IoT communications when applied to e-health environment. LBA-Ie integrates important IoT communication parameters in the flow control process supported by TCP. LBA-Ie is self-organized and adaptive algorithm by taking into account the changes occurred within the network, on the links situations and within the objects parameters. After the implementation and the evaluation of LBA-Ie, the obtained results showed a better QoS and energy efficiency compared to three other solutions which are NewReno, JTCP and COCM.
  
    title: Distinction Between Data Losses for Better Communications in IoT,
    abstract: Our objective in this paper is to improve the communications performance for IoT applications by proposing a new solution called IC-IoT (Improving Communication for IoT). The principle used is the exploitation of three existing communication protocol by incorporating some mechanisms to consider the different parameters which can cause the data loses. A probabilistic approach is used to know the impact of every single parameter on the communication performance. The calculated probabilities are used by routing, transport and MAC protocols to adapt their functioning. IC-IoT leads to keep a better performance of quality of services (QoS) parameters and then provide favorable conditions for IoT applications. After the evaluation of its performance, the proposed solution improves the QoS parameters for the IoT applications. We are interesting mainly to the rate of packets delivery, the network lifetime and the evolution of the consumed energy.,
    introduction: The technological advances in microelectronics and sensor networks are the main factors for the emergence of a new type of network called today Internet of Things (IoT) [1] [2]. These networks are characterized by the deployment and the sharing of secured, optimized and distributed services made between smart and new generation interconnected devices (which we call also objects or nodes). To reach its objectives, IoT involves implementing a multidisciplinary approach of new technologies, concepts and models. Given the variety of the areas covered by such environment, many challenges should be addressed. One challenge is how to consider the characteristics of the smart objects (sensors, actuators, processors, etc) to satisfy the requirements of the applications exploiting IoT environments. The QoS parameters are numerous but the most important are the reliability of data, their acquisition in real time and the lifetime of the different nodes from the network. These constraints are involved in all layers of the OSI model, but the most specifics to such environment are the communication layers [3] [4].,
    conclusion: In this paper, we proposed a new protocol called IC-IoT (Improvement of Communications for IoT) to improve the quality of services (QoS) parameters for the IoT applications. IC-IoT exploits three communication protocols by adding of some functionalities allowing them to consider the factors which frequently cause the data losses. With these new functionalities and based on the parameters of the communication environment, probabilities of data losses are calculated. The obtained results have been used by the previous cited protocols and this for good adjusting of their functioning. Such treatments ensure to keep a better performance of QoS parameters and then provide favorable conditions for IoT applications.
  
    title: Self-Configuring IoT Service QoS Guarantee Using QBAIoT,
    abstract: Providing Internet of Things (IoT) environments with service level guarantee is a challenging task for improving IoT application usage experience. We specify in this paper an IoT architecture enabling an IoT Service Level Agreement (iSLA) achievement between an IoT Service Provider (IoT-SP) and an IoT Client (IoT-C). In order to guarantee the IoT applications’ requirements, Quality of Service (QoS) mechanisms should be implemented within all the layers of the IoT architecture. Thus, we propose a specific mechanism for the lowest layer of our service level based IoT architecture (i.e., sensing layer). It is an adaptation of the IEEE 802.15.4 slotted CSMA/CA mechanism enabling to take into consideration the requirements of real-time IoT services. Our access method called QBAIoT (QoS based Access for IoT) extends IEEE 802.15.4 systems by creating a new contention access period for each specified traffic class in the iSLA. Furthermore, due to the huge number of IoT connected devices, self-configuring capability provisioning is necessary for limiting human intervention and total cost of ownership (TCO). Thus, we integrate a self-configuring capability to the QBAIoT access method by implementing the MAPE-K closed control loop within the IoT High Level Gateway (HL-Gw) of our proposed QoS based IoT architecture.,
    introduction: Internet of Things (IoT) is nowadays evident in our everyday life. We estimate the economic impact of the IoT to be between $3.9 and $11 trillion dollars by 2025. Indeed, billions of connected objects exist with an average of two devices per human on earth resulting in creating the IoT environment. The future growth of IoT will lead to an important usage of technology in our daily life. Thus, this usage of technology aims to improve the human’s quality of life by facilitating everyday tasks. To ensure better user experience and improve the usage of IoT applications, a certain service level corresponding to specific IoT services is needed to motivate the users to use the IoT applications. The expected service level should consider not only QoS guarantee, measured through different performance parameters (i.e., delay, packet delivery ratio, etc.), but also security and users’ privacy issues within different layers of the IoT architecture.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we proposed a novel QoS based wireless access method for IoT environments called QBAIoT. Our method is an enhancement of the slotted Carrier Sense Multiple Access with Collision Avoidance (CSMA/CA) technique, used by the beacon-enabled mode of the IEEE 802.15.4 standard. The proposed method aims to guarantee QoS parameters corresponding to the requirements of a specific IoT service such as e-health. We also integrated a self-configuring capability to the QBAIoT access method by implementing the MAPE-K closed control loop within the IoT High Level Gateway (HL-Gw). The performance evaluation of QBAIoT showed a significant improvement in terms of delay, packet delivery ratio, and energy efficiency compared to the standard IEEE 802.15.4 access method and another QoS based access method called SDA CSMA/CA. In future works, we plan to enhance the QBAIoT mechanism by integrating more sophisticated self-management functions to further improve its performance and adaptability to dynamic IoT environments.
  
    title: On Self-Configuring IoT With Dual Radios: A Cross-Layer Approach,
    abstract: Growing interest in emerging IoT applications provides a strong drive to release a plethora of communication radios from different standards, which are largely classified into short-range (IEEE 802.15.4) and long-range radios (IEEE 802.15.4g). In this paper, we propose a joint, self-configuring MAC and routing protocol, SEDA-Net, which aims at adaptively choosing the best configuration for communication coordination and data delivery, depending on different deployed topologies and external conditions. SEDA-Net is a combination of SEDA-MAC, SEDA-Routing, and Cross-Opt. SEDA-MAC and SEDA-Routing adaptively determine the best radio configuration for communication coordination under duty-cycling and each node’s next-hop over which radio and Cross-Opt jointly optimizes inter-coupled MAC and routing in an iterative manner. We implement SEDA-Net on Contiki OS and perform extensive simulations and experiments using a testbed in an office building. This testbed consists of 45 nodes equipped with a commercial platform, Firefly, having 2.4 GHz short-range and 920 MHz long-range radios. We demonstrate that energy efficiency quantified by the network lifetime increases by up to 2.1 times, compared to that of existing approaches.,
    introduction: We are now experiencing the emergence of a plethora of new IoT applications in various domains, e.g., environmental monitoring, surveillance systems, and consumer electronics. They lead a strong drive for a surge of communication radios based on various communication standards with different characteristics. These radios are largely classified into IEEE 802.15.4 at 2.4 GHz and IEEE 802.15.4g at sub-GHz, where the former is characterized by short communication range with high data rate, and the latter has long communication range with low data rate. We also have a list of products combining both standards with dual radios in the market for flexible operation. These are often called dual-radio motes, including Firefly, Waspmote, and OpenMote B, where we choose Firefly in our testbed. Our focus is on a network of IoT nodes with such dual radios. The key design goals for network protocols in IoTs include energy efficiency and self-configuration so as to run systems without frequent battery replacement and cumbersome manual operation. The main advantage of configuring the IoT network with dual radios is that a few long-range connections can dramatically shorten the path among any two nodes in the network. In other words, well-configured dual-radio networks will have much shorter network distance – as the length of paths from data sources to a destination dramatically decreases, the energy cost for network operation (e.g., caused by long multi-hop delivery) will decrease accordingly.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we propose SEDA-Net, a novel joint MAC and routing protocol for dual-radio IoT networks that adapts to characteristics of dual radios, offered traffic patterns, and node deployment in a self-configuring and distributed manner. SEDA-Net consists of SEDA-MAC, SEDA-Routing, and Cross-Opt, which work together to find energy-efficient configurations for communication coordination and data delivery. Our extensive evaluations demonstrate that SEDA-Net significantly improves the network lifetime, reducing delay and enhancing reliability compared to existing non-adaptive protocols.
  
    title: Self-Organized Low-Power IoT Networks: A Distributed Learning Approach,
    abstract: Enabling large-scale energy-efficient Internet-of-things (IoT) connectivity is an essential step towards realization of networked society. While legacy wide-area wireless systems are highly dependent on network-side coordination, the level of consumed energy in signaling, as well as the expected increase in the number of IoT devices, makes such centralized approaches infeasible in future. Here, we address this problem by self-coordination for IoT networks through learning from past communications. To this end, we first study low-complexity distributed learning approaches applicable in IoT communications. Then, we present a learning solution to adapt communication parameters of devices to the environment for maximizing energy efficiency and reliability in data transmissions. Furthermore, leveraging tools from stochastic geometry, we evaluate the performance of proposed distributed learning solution against the centralized coordination. Finally, we analyze the interplay amongst energy efficiency, reliability of communications against noise and interference over data channel, and reliability against adversarial interference over data and feedback channels. The simulation results indicate that compared to the state of the art approaches, both energy efficiency and reliability in IoT communications could be significantly improved using the proposed learning approach. These promising results, which are achieved using lightweight learning, make our solution favorable in many low-cost low-power IoT applications.,
    introduction: From the first to the fourth generation (4G) of wireless networks, a majority of resources in telecommunications have been dedicated to optimize communication systems with respect to the physical channel constraints, such as noise and interference. Thanks to the large communication bandwidth and advanced hardware/software used in both 4G base stations and user devices, 4G networks are able to offer high-speed, seamless, and reliable connectivity to users. Compared to the previous generations, the fifth-generation of wireless networks (5G) has an increased focus on providing connectivity for energy/complexity/cost constrained smart devices, i.e. Internet-of-things (IoT). The long-term envision is to provide low-cost, large-scale, and ultra-durable connectivity for everything which benefits from being connected. Until now, the design and optimization of communication networks have been based on statistical models for arriving traffic as well as physical constraints like noise and interference. User devices, mostly smart-phones with a daily charging routine, listen frequently (in the order of sub-seconds) to their serving base stations (BSs), which are responsible for managing the connections, sending connection instructions, and scheduling radio resources. As complexity, scale and heterogeneity of wireless networks, especially due to the IoT traffic, availability of statistical models for arriving traffic in the network-side and ability of energy-limited devices in frequent listening to the access network become infeasible. The latter is mainly due to the fact that in IoT networks, the design objectives, quality of service (QoS) requirements, and communications’ characteristics are fundamentally different than the ones of legacy communication networks.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we propose SEDA-Net, a novel joint MAC and routing protocol for dual-radio IoT networks that adapts to characteristics of dual radios, offered traffic patterns, and node deployment in a self-configuring and distributed manner. SEDA-Net consists of SEDA-MAC, SEDA-Routing, and Cross-Opt, which work together to find energy-efficient configurations for communication coordination and data delivery. Our extensive evaluations demonstrate that SEDA-Net significantly improves the network lifetime, reducing delay and enhancing reliability compared to existing non-adaptive protocols.
  
    title: Performance Analysis of the IEEE 802.11 Distributed Coordination Function,
    abstract: Recently, the IEEE has standardized the 802.11 protocol for Wireless Local Area Networks. The primary medium access control (MAC) technique of 802.11 is called distributed coordination function (DCF). DCF is a carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance (CSMA/CA) scheme with binary slotted exponential backoff. This paper provides a simple, but nevertheless extremely accurate, analytical model to compute the 802.11 DCF throughput, in the assumption of finite number of terminals and ideal channel conditions. The proposed analysis applies to both the packet transmission schemes employed by DCF, namely, the basic access and the RTS/CTS access mechanisms. In addition, it also applies to a combination of the two schemes, in which packets longer than a given threshold are transmitted according to the RTS/CTS mechanism. By means of the proposed model, in this paper we provide an extensive throughput performance evaluation of both access mechanisms of the 802.11 protocol.,
    introduction: In recent years, much interest has been involved in the design of wireless networks for local area communication. Study group 802.11 was formed under IEEE Project 802 to recommend an international standard for Wireless Local Area Networks (WLAN’s). The final version of the standard has recently appeared and provides detailed medium access control (MAC) and physical layer (PHY) specification for WLAN’s. In the 802.11 protocol, the fundamental mechanism to access the medium is called distributed coordination function (DCF). This is a random access scheme, based on the carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance (CSMA/CA) protocol. Retransmission of collided packets is managed according to binary exponential backoff rules. The standard also defines an optional point coordination function (PCF), which is a centralized MAC protocol able to support collision free and time bounded services. In this paper we limit our investigation to the DCF scheme. DCF describes two techniques to employ for packet transmission. The default scheme is a two-way handshaking technique called basic access mechanism. This mechanism is characterized by the immediate transmission of a positive acknowledgement (ACK) by the destination station, upon successful reception of a packet transmitted by the sender station. Explicit transmission of an ACK is required since, in the wireless medium, a transmitter cannot determine if a packet is successfully received by listening to its own transmission.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we have presented a simple analytical model to compute the saturation throughput performance of the 802.11 Distributed Coordination Function. Our model assumes a finite number of terminals and ideal channel conditions. The model is suited for any access scheme employed, i.e., for both basic access and RTS/CTS Access mechanisms, as well as for a combination of the two. Comparison with simulation results shows that the model is extremely accurate in predicting the system throughput. Using the proposed model, we have evaluated the 802.11 throughput performance. We have shown that performance of the basic access method strongly depends on the system parameters, mainly minimum contention window and number of stations in the wireless network. Conversely, performance is only marginally dependent on the system parameters when the RTS/CTS mechanism is considered.
  
    title: Performance Analysis of the IEEE 802.11 Distributed Coordination Function,
    abstract: Recently, the IEEE has standardized the 802.11 protocol for Wireless Local Area Networks. The primary medium access control (MAC) technique of 802.11 is called distributed coordination function (DCF). DCF is a carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance (CSMA/CA) scheme with binary slotted exponential backoff. This paper provides a simple, but nevertheless extremely accurate, analytical model to compute the 802.11 DCF throughput, in the assumption of finite number of terminals and ideal channel conditions. The proposed analysis applies to both the packet transmission schemes employed by DCF, namely, the basic access and the RTS/CTS access mechanisms. In addition, it also applies to a combination of the two schemes, in which packets longer than a given threshold are transmitted according to the RTS/CTS mechanism. By means of the proposed model, in this paper we provide an extensive throughput performance evaluation of both access mechanisms of the 802.11 protocol.,
    introduction: In recent years, much interest has been involved in the design of wireless networks for local area communication. Study group 802.11 was formed under IEEE Project 802 to recommend an international standard for Wireless Local Area Networks (WLAN’s). The final version of the standard has recently appeared and provides detailed medium access control (MAC) and physical layer (PHY) specification for WLAN’s. In the 802.11 protocol, the fundamental mechanism to access the medium is called distributed coordination function (DCF). This is a random access scheme, based on the carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance (CSMA/CA) protocol. Retransmission of collided packets is managed according to binary exponential backoff rules. The standard also defines an optional point coordination function (PCF), which is a centralized MAC protocol able to support collision free and time bounded services. In this paper we limit our investigation to the DCF scheme. DCF describes two techniques to employ for packet transmission. The default scheme is a two-way handshaking technique called basic access mechanism. This mechanism is characterized by the immediate transmission of a positive acknowledgement (ACK) by the destination station, upon successful reception of a packet transmitted by the sender station. Explicit transmission of an ACK is required since, in the wireless medium, a transmitter cannot determine if a packet is successfully received by listening to its own transmission.,
    conclusion: In this paper, we have presented a simple analytical model to compute the saturation throughput performance of the 802.11 Distributed Coordination Function. Our model assumes a finite number of terminals and ideal channel conditions. The model is suited for any access scheme employed, i.e., for both basic access and RTS/CTS Access mechanisms, as well as for a combination of the two. Comparison with simulation results shows that the model is extremely accurate in predicting the system throughput. Using the proposed model, we have evaluated the 802.11 throughput performance. We have shown that performance of the basic access method strongly depends on the system parameters, mainly minimum contention window and number of stations in the wireless network. Conversely, performance is only marginally dependent on the system parameters when the RTS/CTS mechanism is considered.







